Comments from Readers and Reviewers
“[One of] the 100 best and most influential [nonfiction books] written in
English since 1923, the beginning of TIME….magazine.”
—Time.​com
“I graduated college in 2008, wallowed hopelessly in career frustration,
and later received the best career advice of my life…which was to read
your book What Color Is Your Parachute? Today, I am happily employed
in a job that is the envy of my peers. I’m living proof of the power of your
book and I recommend it to everyone I meet. It will eternally be the gift I
give to recent graduates. Thank you for writing your book! I cannot begin
to describe how much I have enjoyed it.”
—Whitney Moore
“I have the deepest respect for his wonderful writing and promotion that
have inspired establishment of the career planning profession.”
—Bernard Haldane
“If you go into the bookstore and find the section on jobs, careers, or
networking—the reason that section even exists is because of Dick Bolles.
His book, What Color Is Your Parachute?, has helped many people find
their true passion at work. Plus he is a great man.”
—G. L. Hoffman, Job Dig
“[One of the] Books that Shaped Work in America. How could I not put
this on the list?…In print since 1970 and revised every year since 1975, it
has not only informed and educated job seekers and job changers in the
United States, but also had a global impact through publication in more
than twenty languages. It’s basically the bible of career advice.”
—United States Department of Labor
“Anyone looking for career direction advice or solid information about
how to find the job that’s right for them should begin their search with
Richard Bolles’s classic book, What Color Is Your Parachute? It’s been
named one of the most influential books of all time for a reason—it has
probably changed the course of more people’s lives than almost any book
except the Bible. Richard updates the book every year so it is always
relevant.”
—Eric Wentworth
“I found a copy of your book What Color Is Your Parachute? back in
1982–83 during the lowest point in my life, and that book turned me
around. I can’t begin to thank you enough for the changes that came to my
life as I worked with the ideas I learned from your book. I probably did
more in the next five years or so than I had done in the whole of my thirty
years prior to that. Your book encouraged me to see the gifts that God had
given me and opened the doors to possibilities I couldn’t even have
imagined before that. What I learned through all of that has influenced all
of my life since—and for that I am immensely grateful.”
—Evelyn Marinoski
“Love your Parachute books, I am on my third one in my thirty-year
career…and can’t believe how much better each one gets, plus they stay so
timely and relevant through all the changes over time!”
—Anthony DeLisi
“I just wanted to tell you how grateful I am to you and your book, What
Color Is Your Parachute? I graduated from a four-year university in May,
and I had no clue what I wanted to do, or how to look for a job. Like any
kid, I thought I knew the best way to do things and that I didn’t need
anyone’s advice, but after a few months of unemployment I realized that
this wasn’t true. My dad had given me a copy of your book, but after a few
months of nothing, not even an interview, I really read it, did the exercises,
and trusted in what you were saying. I didn’t believe that I would find MY
job, the perfect job for me. But I did, at a nonprofit that does cleft lip and
palate surgery missions to China and Africa. This job has literally every
single attribute that I listed, and I wouldn’t have known what attributes I
needed in a job unless I had done your exercises. I’m sure you get
probably hundreds of emails a week saying the same thing, so I’ll keep it
short—I just wanted to say that I owe my happiness in my job to you and
my dad. I recommend your book to EVERYONE, including strangers.”
—Heather Smith
“Richard is a giant both in my life and certainly in the field. When you
think about his contributions to…understanding the whole notion of three
boxes of life, creating the flower exercise, and the three questions that
really help drive our job-finding activity it is quite remarkable because it
certainly changed my life personally, and it changed most of the work that
career counselors and specialists and coaches perform. And I would expect
it changed all of our work as we think about how we grow talent in
organizations.”
—Rich Feller, Past President of the National Career Development
Association (NCDA)
“The people who can educate employees and job seekers on how to really
find jobs (and careers) are career counselors and career coaches. Ideally, a
good coach should buy copies of Parachute at wholesale and give a copy
to every one of their paying clients.”
—Richard Knowdell, trainer of career counselors and coaches
“The new edition of the best-selling job-hunting book What Color Is Your
Parachute?, in addition to the tried-and-true advice for job seekers Dick
Bolles has provided for close to forty years, has new information on job-
search productivity, job clubs, and how to organize and manage your job-
search. What Color Is Your Parachute? is deservedly the world’s most
popular job-hunting book, with over eleven million copies sold in twenty-
six languages.
This…edition is as relevant today as when it was first published. Dick
Bolles insightfully stays on the cutting edge of job-searching, and the book
is full of new and updated suggestions, along with the classic advice that
continues to hold true today.”
—Alison Doyle, About.​com Guide
“Dick Bolles is the last person on earth who needs my recommendation.
Everyone knows his value to the world of career development. My
recommendation/gratitude is for his friendship. He’s a wonderful human
being, joyful, resilient, and generous.”
—Ellen Jackson
“I want to recommend Dick for the hard work he has put in both as an
author and as a coach. The amount of influence Mr. Bolles has had on
people in career transition, such as myself when the dot-com bubble burst,
is immeasurable….His sage wisdom has forever changed my life, and I
insist that all future employees read the Parachute book.”
—Devin Hedge
“I originally discovered your book so gratefully in my early twenties. It is
the best book I’ve ever read on determining what type of career you want,
and I’ve changed careers several times. I’ve been both the applicant and
the interviewer many times, and recommended your book to countless
friends and family members over the years. I’m forty-nine years old this
year….Thank you for writing such a comprehensive and helpful book. I
just have to thank you for being there one more time, updating the
information and cutting to the heart of the issues, as always. I appreciate
your work more than I can say. I know you’ve helped me obtain the jobs I
most wanted, which directed my life.”
—Cheryl Lean
“Dick Bolles is clever and witty and has some superb ideas.”
—Karen Elizabeth Davies
© ScienceCartoonsPlus.​com
This is an annual. That is to say, it is revised each year, often substantially, with the new
edition appearing in early August. Counselors and others wishing to submit additions,
corrections, or suggestions for the 2019 edition must submit them prior to February 1,
2018, using the form provided in the back of this book. Forms reaching us after that
date will, unfortunately, have to wait for the 2020 edition.
PUBLISHER’S NOTE
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard
to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not
engaged in rendering professional career services. If expert assistance is required, the
service of the appropriate professional should be sought.
Copyright © 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007,
2006, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996, 1995, 1994, 1993,
1992, 1991, 1990, 1989, 1988, 1987, 1986, 1985, 1984, 1983, 1982, 1981, 1980, 1979,
1978, 1977, 1976, 1975, 1972, 1970
All rights reserved.
Published in the United States by Ten Speed Press, an imprint of the Crown Publishing
Group, a division of Penguin Random House LLC, New York.
www.​crownpublishing.​com
www.​tenspeed.​com
Ten Speed Press and the Ten Speed Press colophon are registered trademarks of
Penguin Random House LLC.
The drawings on this page, this page, and this page are by Steven M. Johnson, author of
What the World Needs Now.
Illustration on this page by Beverly Anderson.
Meeting icon on this page and this page by Björn Andersson, Workspace icon on this
page and this page by Universal Icons, Help icon on this page and this page by Luis
Prado, Dawn icon (slightly altered) on this page and this page by Stephen Plaster, Brain
icon on this page, this page, and this page by Wes Breazell, Personal finance icon on
this page and this page by Gregor Črešnar, Hand icon on this page by Chameleon
Design, Stopwatch icon on this page by Nick Holroyd, Guitar icon on this page by
Hum, Stethoscope icon on this page by Ralf Schmitzer, Light bulb icon on this page by
AB, Scale icon on this page by Edward Boatman, Heart icon on this page by Maria
Maldonado, Singing icon on this page by Creative Stall, Earth icon on this page by João
Proença, Praying icon on this page by Cristiano Zoucas, Rest room icon on this page by
lipi, from thenounproject.​com.
Image on this page from Dollar Photo Club.
Trade Paperback ISBN 9780399579639
Hardcover ISBN 9780399579646
Ebook ISBN 9780399579653
ISSN 8755-4658
Cover design by Kara Plikaitis
av4.1
The wonderful actress Anne Bancroft (1931–2005) was once
loosely quoted as saying about her husband, Mel Brooks,
My heart flutters whenever I hear his key turning in the door,
and I think to myself, Oh goody, the party is about to begin.
That is exactly how I feel about my wife, Marci Garcia
Mendoza Bolles, God’s angel from the Philippines, whom I
fell deeply in love with, and married on August 22, 2004.
What an enchanted marriage this has turned out to be!
THE 2018
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter 1  It’s a Whole New World for Job-Hunters
Chapter 2  Google Is Your New Resume
Chapter 3  There Are Over Ten Million Vacancies Available Each
Month
Chapter 4  Sixteen Tips About Interviewing for a Job
Chapter 5  The Six Secrets of Salary Negotiation
Chapter 6  What to Do When Your Job-Hunt Just Isn’t Working
Chapter 7  Self-Inventory, Part 1
Chapter 8  Self-Inventory, Part 2
Chapter 9  You Get to Choose Where You Work
Chapter 10  How to Deal with Any Handicaps You Have
Chapter 11  The Five Ways to Choose/Change Careers
Chapter 12  How to Start Your Own Business
THE BLUE PAGES
Appendix A  Finding Your Mission in Life
Appendix B  A Guide to Dealing with Your Feelings While Out of
Work
Appendix C  A Guide to Choosing a Career Coach or Counselor
Appendix D  Sampler List of Coaches
Appendix E  Recent Foreign Editions of What Color Is Your
Parachute?
The Final Word: Notes from the Author for This Edition
About the Author
Update 2019
Index
Additional Helpful Resources from the Author
It was the best of times,
It was the worst of times,
It was the age of wisdom,
It was the age of foolishness,
It was the epoch of belief,
It was the epoch of incredulity,
It was the season of light,
It was the season of darkness,
It was the spring of hope,
It was the winter of despair,
We had everything before us,
We had nothing before us,
We were all going direct to heaven,
We were all going direct the other way…
—A Tale of Two Cities, Charles Dickens (1812–1870)
CHAPTER 1
It’s a Whole New World for Job-
Hunters
If you are trying to understand yourself better, and what you have to
offer to the world, this book is for you.
If you are out of work, and want some practical help, this book is for
you.
If you’ve been out of work a long long time, and have been told you’re
now permanently unemployable, this book is for you.
If you’re on the edge of poverty these days, this book is for you.
If you’ve got some handicap, this book is for you.
If you’re trying to figure out a new career or your first career, this book
is for you.
If you’re going to college and you can’t figure out what to major in, this
book is for you.
If you are trying to understand how the world, and particularly the
world of work, really works these days, this book is for you.
If you are trying to figure out what you want to do next, with your life,
this book is for you.
If you’re just graduating from college and have to live with your parents
’cause you can’t find any work, this book is for you.
If you’re trying to figure out how to start your own business, this book is
for you.
If you’re a returning vet, this book is for you.
If you’re facing retirement, and want to know what to do to support
yourself, this book is for you.
A Two-Minute Crash Course on How
Much Has Changed in the World of Work
It is the age of Trump, for the U.S. and the world…and jobs. Charles
Dickens put it well: For some people, a lot of people, this is the best of
times. But for others of us, this is the worst of times. The rules of the game
have changed. Without notice. And without warning. Especially for the
job-hunt, or for those trying to make a career-change.
The job-hunt is behaving differently now, than it used to. Things have
changed. Dramatically. And not just because of a new administration.
The tipping point was 2008. We all know what happened then: the so-
called Great Recession, the worst financial disaster since the Great
Depression in 1929. We have recovered, but the landscape has been
fundamentally altered, long-term. What used to work, doesn’t work
anymore. What used to be easy, is now difficult or seemingly impossible.
Our lament: Out of work. Made up a resume. Sent it to all the places I’m
s’posed to. Went to all the Internet “job-boards” and looked for vacancies
in my field. Day after day. Week after week. Month after month. All of this
worked the last time I went job-hunting. But now? Strikeout! Nothing!
There are things we can do about this. Believe me, there are. That’s
what this book is all about. But before we change our strategies, we must
know what we are up against. So, let’s tick off—in rapid order—what’s
different since 2008:
1. Employers Changed, Job-Hunters Didn’t
Year in and year out, when we are job-hunting, we tend to hunt in the
same way we have for decades, regardless of whether the times are good
or bad. Our hunt always depends on resumes (digital or printed), agencies
(private or federal/state), and ads (online or off).
Employers don’t. They don’t stay the same. In good times they hunt one
way. In bad times, they hunt another way. They adapt to the times.
What this means is that when times are good, employers often have
difficulty filling their vacancies, so they will typically cater to the job-
hunter’s preferences in such a season. We like resumes, so they will take
the trouble to solicit, look at, and read our resumes. We like job-postings,
so they will post their vacancies where we can find them: on their own site
or on job-boards, typically.
What we are not prepared for, is that when the economy turns tough (for
us), and employers are finding it easier to fill a vacancy because there are
many more unemployed to choose from, many—though not all—
employers change their tactics. They will stop reading our resumes and
stop posting their vacancies. So we can search the old way until we’re blue
in the face. But…nothing! Everything that used to work, doesn’t work
anymore. And we are baffled. It is like turning the key in our faithful car,
but for the first time in five years the motor won’t start.
We assume, of course, that the reason why nothing is working is that
there are no jobs. It never occurs to us that there are indeed jobs—over ten
million of them a month, as we’ll see in chapter 3—but that employers
have changed their behavior when hunting for employees, and we have not
caught up with, nor adapted to, employers’ new behavior.
2. The Length of the Average Job-Hunt Has Increased
Dramatically
From 1994 through 2008, roughly half of all unemployed job-seekers
found jobs within five weeks. Only 10% of them were spending more than
a year looking for work. After 2008, a far greater proportion— from 17%
to 30% of all unemployed persons in the U.S.—are spending more than a
year looking for work. (According to a recent study, 29.6% are taking one
to three months to find work; 15.4% are taking three to six months; and
22.6% are taking six months or longer.1)
The chattering classes are speculating that this is creating a permanent
underclass of The People Who Will Never Work Again—witness such
headlines as “The Long-Term Unemployed Are Doomed.” It ain’t
necessarily so, but certainly it can become true for some people. A lot
depends on an individual’s job-hunting skills. Are your job-hunting skills
left over from the 1990s, or are they 2018’s? In the workplace of today,
that can be a matter of life or death.
One thing we know for sure. A lot of people just don’t want to be in the
labor force, for the time being. They either are discouraged about the job-
market (that’s 455,000 people) or may be outside the labor force for other
reasons (1,080,000 people), such as school or family responsibilities, ill
health, or transportation problems.2
3. The Length of Time the Average Job Lasts Has
Decreased Dramatically
Of jobs that workers found between the time they were 18 and 24 years
old, 69% of those jobs lasted less than a year, and 93% lasted less than five
years. Ah, youth, we think to ourselves. No, even at jobs that workers
found between the time they were 40 and 48 years old, 32% of those jobs
lasted less than a year, and 69% lasted less than five years.3
The job-market has changed, dramatically, since 2008. Full-time jobs
(usually defined as “working more than thirty-five hours a week”) are
getting harder and harder to find. The number of people with part-time
jobs who really want to work full-time totals 5,272,000 currently.
So, a lot of job-hunters have redefined what they’re looking for. Some
seek shorter-lasting jobs, often just for the length of a project, or whatever.
There has been a dramatic increase in the number of temp or part-time
jobs since 2008—a category that includes people who really only want
short-term jobs, such as independent contractors, consultants, freelancers,
and contract workers. This trend was first made famous by Daniel Pink in
his 2001 book, Free Agent Nation: How America’s New Independent
Workers Are Transforming the Way We Live.4 Currently, part-time
workers in the U.S. total 27,233,000 as I write (that’s 17.8% of all those
employed, right now). It is predicted that by 2020, the number of part-
timers, temp workers, free agents, freelancers—or whatever you want to
call them—will number 60,000,000 or 40% of the U.S. workforce. There
are already 55 million freelancers in the U.S., as I write.
The reason for this current rise in temporary hiring, as you’ve probably
guessed, is employers’ desire to keep their costs down—in the face of the
global economy and online competition, hiring only when they need help,
and letting the employee go as soon as they don’t need that help, has
become a budget-friendly strategy for employers across the country; and,
indeed, across the world.5 Not to mention, that part-timers don’t have to be
paid any benefits, or granted paid vacation time. Indeed, 20% to 30% of
those employed by the Fortune 100 now have short-term jobs, either as
independent contractors or as temp workers, and this figure is predicted to
rise to 50% during the next six years. Employers in the IT industry, in
particular, are increasingly hiring someone just until a project is
completed, rather than permanently hiring that person. Even in industries
where people are hired allegedly for longer periods, employers are much
more ready to cut the size of their workforce just as soon as things start to
even begin to look bad. You thought you were being hired for a number of
years, they said that, they meant that, but then fortunes change and
suddenly you’re back out on the street, job-hunting once again.
4. The Way Jobs Are Done Is Changing Dramatically
“Almost two-thirds of American households earn less money today than
they did in 2002.” That was the scary opening to an article in the
Washington Post on March 6, 2015.6 You want the worst-paying jobs
these days? Oh, there are lots of lists. They include such jobs as food
service workers, farm workers, cashiers, maids and housekeepers, nannies
and child-care workers, nursing home and psychiatric ward workers,
textile and laundry workers, parking lot attendants, etc.
Let’s dig deeper. Economists say that a decent middle-class job these
days should be a stable, dependable job that pays between $40,000 and
$80,000, annually. The jobs that used to pay that were manufacturing jobs.
Now the fields that do are: finance (as in Wall Street), corporate jobs,
sales, and above all else, healthcare. (It is expected the health sector will
offer 21.8 million jobs by 2024. Why? Well, one reason is: more and more
people are living longer and dealing with the maladies of aging.)
Of greater importance is not that certain jobs are vanishing, while some
jobs are flourishing, but that all jobs are being reimagined. The ability of
each of us to survive in this new world depends on our understanding how
the world, especially the world of work, is being reimagined. Things that
never used to be connected are increasingly being reimagined as
connected. This reimagining of our world as hyperconnected is not going
to be implemented…some day, down the road. It is being implemented
now. In fact, this has given rise to a whole new field called “The Internet
of Things” or IoT for short—a term first coined in 1999 by Kevin Ashton.
To quote one expert, the premise of The Internet of Things is that “all
things, including every physical object, can be connected—making those
objects intelligent, programmable and capable of interacting with
humans.”7 Experts predict between 34 billion and 50 billion devices will
be connected by the year 2020. That’s less than three years away.
As the world reimagines itself without our consent, we are told—by
raving Futurists—that in the not-too-distant future, robots are going to take
away all our work, thus making humans unnecessary to the future of this
planet. Many believe that all jobs are going to be eliminated by
technology. But when you press the experts—as I have—as to what
percentage of jobs they think will be completely replaced by technology,
they predict that only 5%, or at worse 19%, of current jobs in the U.S. will
be replaced by robotics, technology, and computer programs.
Worldwide, on January 19, 2016, the World Economic Forum (WEF) in
Davos predicted that robots will take away a net of 5 million jobs by 2020.
To put this in perspective, this is a loss of only one-tenth of 1% of the
global labor pool (which numbers 3 billion)—terrible if one of those jobs
is yours, but hardly evidence for the fear that “robots are taking away all
our jobs.”
What robots and related technology will do is not eliminate all jobs, but
rather tackle certain tasks within jobs. This means that most jobs are going
to become a partnership—a partnership between Humans and Machines.
By “Machines” I mean all our inventions such as: computer programs,
Wi-Fi, the Internet, centralized computer systems or hubs, digital
electronics, mobile computers (smartphones), AI (artificial intelligence),
integrated circuits and sensors, robots that learn and share that knowledge
with other robots, transistors, mobiles, wearables, 3-D printers, a new
generation of computer chips, processors, algorithms, actuators, voice and
image recognition, software that analyzes facial expressions, as well as
things—machines—that are able to talk to each other directly or through a
centralized computer platform or hub. And so on….In a nutshell, by
“Machines” I intend to mean “anything we’ve invented.” MIT scientists
call this partnership “human-machine symbiosis.” Yikes!
What happened to our jobs? you ask. Well, as we have seen, they are
being reimagined as a partnership between Humans and Machines. Large
parts of the world of work will not see or feel this reimagination until some
years down the road; other parts are already seeing it, or will see it
tomorrow. We must begin—now—to reimagine our own lives in the world
of work, and get comfortable with the idea of future jobs as a partnership
between Humans and Machines (loosely defined as I have).
So, we are going to have to learn new skills to survive in this
reimagined world. We must begin by knowing ourselves better. Imagine
you are hiking in a wilderness and find a strong running stream suddenly
swirling around your feet; your first instinct would be to find something
solid to stand on, before you get swept off your feet. In similar fashion,
taking an inventory of yourself will give you that “something solid to stand
on” in the midst of all this reimagining that is swirling around you. A good
self-inventory can be found in this book, in chapters 7 and 8. Knowing just
who you are, what you like and do best, what kindles your brain, and what
enables you to do your best work, has never been more important, than in
this reimagined workplace that is coming and is already here. Don’t ignore
this step.
Then we must ask ourselves, how will I fit in, in this reimagined world
where jobs are increasingly becoming partnerships between Humans and
Machines? We will have to reimagine our attitude toward robots, and start
thinking of Machines (and particularly robots), as our friend come to help
us with certain tasks, not as an enemy come to steal our jobs away.
Once you’ve done the self-inventory I mentioned above, you may well
have thought of a field you would really like to be in, or a job you might
really like to do. If so, get permission to “shadow” a worker for a day or
two, to see what that job or field actually involves, in this reimagined
world. Above all, become familiar with the basic actors on this stage, our
friends the robots and sensors. Sensors are the “voice” of objects, even
when that object is the human body. One object may have many sensors.
For example, today’s smartphones have five to nine sensors: a proximity
sensor, an ambient light sensor, an ambient sound sensor, a
temperature/humidity 
sensor, 
a 
barometer, 
an 
accelerometer, 
a
magnetometer, a gyroscopic sensor, and the like. Learn how sensors and
robots are designed, manufactured, operated, maintained, and repaired.
Maybe you will find some part of all this that you really like; if so, figure
out how to train for it. You will not lack for work. These principal actors
are going to be around for a long time.
5. Job-Hunting Is Increasingly Becoming a Repetitive
Activity in the Lives of Many of Us
This is obviously because jobs don’t last as long as they used to. So, even
when we find a job now, we may be job-hunting again, sooner than we
think. How often? In a new study, released March 31, 2015, by the U.S.
Department of Labor, it was revealed that the average person in the U.S.
born between 1957 and 1964, had to go job-hunting 17.2 times from when
they were 18 years old until they were 48.8 Job-hunting is no longer an
optional exercise. It is a survival skill. This means the one thing in our life
that we must get really skilled at, and become masters of, is the new job-
hunt, new at least since things have changed after the 2008 Great
Recession.
6. Job-Hunting Has Moved More and More Online
Since 2008
If you haven’t moved online (and 13% of American adults haven’t) then
you are handicapping your job-hunt. One of the first things you should do,
these days, is learn how to use a computer—if you haven’t already.
From the earliest days of the Internet there have been employment
websites, commonly called “job-boards.” These are places where
employers post vacancies that they are trying to fill. In the old days, you
went to newspapers for these vacancies. Now you go to the Internet. The
earliest boards were NetStart Inc. and The Monster Board (TMP), both
launched in 1994. NetStart Inc. changed its name to CareerBuilder in
1998, and TMP changed to Monster.​com in 1999. Thousands of job-
boards have sprung up, since then. If you want to use any of them, or many
of them, your “go-to” website for a complete listing of them should be
Randall and Katharine Hansen’s www.​livecareer.​com/​quintessential.
Job-boards can be broken down into the following categories:
1. Search engines that hunt for nothing but job vacancies—they scrub
job-boards, companies, newspapers, or wherever, to find these.
Indeed is the most famous. See www.​livecareer.​com/​quintessential/​
mega-meta-jobs-sites.
2. Mega job-boards, such as the two I mentioned previously. See www.​
livecareer.​com/​quintessential/​general-resources.
3. Niche job-boards, for job vacancies in particular fields or industries.
Comprehensive lists are at www.​livecareer.​com/​quintessential/​
indres. Or if you want just 100 of them, try: www.​good.​co/​blog/​list-
of-100-niche-job-boards.
4. Company job-boards, that run right on a company’s website. Handy,
if you know what companies you are particularly interested in. A
sampling of these can be found at www.​livecareer.​com/​
quintessential/​career-centers.
5. Job-boards for particular ages. Let us say you are a teen. There are
job-boards just for you, such as http://readyjob.​org/​companies-
hire-teens. Or say you are over fifty. There are sites such as www.​
seniorjobbank.​org.
Job-boards, of course, aren’t the only online sites useful to job-hunters
or career-changers. As social media and other sites have become more and
more popular—LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest,
WhatsApp, email, Skype, YouTube, etc.—job-hunters and employers alike
have figured out how to use them in the job-hunt. Now, ever-larger
portions of the job-hunt can be done online. And on all kinds of devices.
From computers to laptops to tablets to smartphones to “wearables” such
as watches. It’s all going increasingly mobile.
So, if you are out of work for any length of time, and you do not yet
have the skills of knowing how to use a computer or how to access the
Internet, you will be wise beyond your years if you go take some computer
courses at your local community college or adult school or your nearest
CareerOneStop Center (now alternatively called American Job Centers).
7. Increasingly Job-Hunters and Employers Speak
Two Different Languages
What has gotten worse since 2008 is the fact that employers and job-
hunters speak two entirely different languages, though often using the
same words. Take the word “skills.” When we’re job-hunting, you get
turned down because—some employers say—“You don’t have the skills
we’re looking for.” You think they’re referring to such things as analyzing,
researching, communicating, etc. No, they really mean “experience,”
though they use the word “skills.” Sample employer memo: “We’re
looking for someone who has had five years of experience marketing
software products to a demographic that is between the ages of twenty-
four and thirty.”
You should assume that the employers’ world is like a foreign country;
you must learn their language, and their customs, before you visit.
This is an idea from the authors of a book called No One Is
Unemployable.9 They suggested that when you approach the world of
business for the first time, you should think of it as going to visit a foreign
country; you know you’re going to have to learn a whole new language,
culture, and customs, there. Same with the job-market. When we are out of
work we must now start to think like an employer, learn how employers
prefer to look for employees, and figure out how to change our own job-
hunting strategies so as to conform to theirs. In other words, adapt to the
employer’s preferences.
So, let’s take a look at that world of the employer. Don’t kid yourself,
employers don’t have all the power in the hiring game, but they do have an
impressive amount. This explains why parts of the whole job-hunting
system in this country will drive you nuts. It wasn’t built for you or me. It
was built by and for them. And they live in a world different from yours
and mine, inside their head. (That’s why I said foreign country!) This
results in the following six contrasts:
You want the job-market to be a hiring game. But the employer
regards it as an elimination game—until the very last phase. Larger
companies or organizations are looking at that huge stack of resumes on
their desk, with a view—first of all—to finding out who they can
eliminate. Eventually they want to get it down to the “last person
standing.” On average, a vacancy receives between 118 and 250 responses
or resumes. On average, employers want to interview only 5.4 candidates.
Getting that stack of 118 to 250 down to 5.4 is the employer’s first
preoccupation.
MANY IF NOT MOST EMPLOYERS HUNT FOR
JOB-HUNTERS IN THE EXACT OPPOSITE WAY
FROM HOW MOST JOB-HUNTERS HUNT FOR
THEM
Click here to download a PDF of The Way a Typical Employer Prefers to Fill a
Vacancy Diagram.
You want the employer to be taking lots of initiative toward finding
you, and when they are desperate they will (especially if you have applied
math skills!). Some HR departments will spend hours and days combing
the Internet looking for the right person. But generally speaking, the
employer prefers that it be you who takes the initiative, toward finding
them.
In being considered for a job, you want your solid past performance
(summarized on your written resume) to be all that gets weighed, but
the employer weighs your whole behavior as they glimpse it from their
first interaction with you.
You want the employer to acknowledge receipt of your resume—
particularly if you post it right on their website, but the employer
generally feels too swamped with other things to have time to do that, so
only 45% do. A majority of employers, 55%, do not. Now that you know
this, don’t take it personally.
You want employers to save your job-hunt by increasing their
hiring, and you want the government to give them incentives to do so.
Unhappily, employers tend to wait to hire until they see an increased
demand for their products or services. In the meantime, most do not much
care for government incentives to hire, because they know such incentives
always have a time limit, and once they expire, that employer will be on
the hook to continue the subsidy out of their own pocket.
You want the employer to hunt for you the same way you are
hunting for them. Actually, the ways you hunt for each other are not just
different; they are exactly the opposite, as you can see in the diagram on
this page.
Why are these strategies so contrary to each other? Values. Job-hunters
and employers have completely different values, during their search.
Employers’ main value/concern is risk.
Job-hunters’ main value/concern is time.
Let me explain.
We who are job-hunters want strategies that will enable us to cover as
much of the job-market as possible, in the least amount of time. So, our
value is: time. Our chosen vehicle is a resume. We want to write it, or have
it written for us, then be able to spread it across a vast landscape, with a
click of the keyboard.
The employer’s chief value, on the other hand, concerns risk. The
employer wants to hire with the lowest possible risk. I mean the risk that
this hire won’t work out. Twenty-seven percent of U.S. employers
surveyed said that a bad hire cost their company more than $50,000.10 To
avoid this, their chosen vehicle is hiring from within, or as close to within
as possible, people whose work-ethic and performance they—or someone
they trust—have already observed, and tested.
Values explain the chart on this page.
The Remedy
No, it’s not all bad news. Think of these, instead, as challenges.
Sure, the workplace has changed dramatically since 2008.
And consequently, the job-hunt has changed dramatically since 2008.
Still, there is Hope. It’s not that there are no jobs (see chapter 3). It’s
just that the old way you used to hunt for them doesn’t work very well,
anymore.
In today’s world, he or she who gets hired is not necessarily the one
who can do that job best; but, the one who knows the most about how to
get hired.
If you learn new advanced job-hunting skills you can not only survive.
You can thrive. Here are the key ideas that can save you. There are 18 of
them. After outlining them here, the rest of this book is devoted to
showing you exactly how to do them step by step:
Principle #1: You Are the Given. All job-hunting strategies are a
choice between going the traditional route (where you assume the job is
the given, and you try to shape yourself to fit it) vs. going the creative
route (where you assume that you are the given, and—once defined—you
try to find a job that fits You).
Principle #2: The Importance of a Self-Inventory. The most
successful job-hunting begins with your doing research on yourself (using
“the Flower Exercise” in chapter 8)—which results in successful job-
hunting 84% of the time—rather than beginning with research on the job-
market (what are the jobs in demand, the “hot” jobs, etc.), which results in
finding a job only 4% to 28% of the time, at best.
Principle #3: Creative Job-Hunting Rests on Your Finding Answers to
Three Questions: What? Where? and How? The most important
questions to answer are:
What are the (transferable) skills you most love to use?
Where would you most love to use those skills—in what field, in what
setting, with what kinds of people? (Taking into consideration such
factors as the place or places where you would most like to live, your
preferred working conditions, people environments, values or goals in
life, level of responsibility, and salary.)
How do you find the name and title of such jobs, places that offer such
work, plus the name of the person-who-has-the-power-to-hire-you-for-
the-job-you-want?
Principle #4: Search for What You Love, Not Just for What You Can
Do. It is not what skills you can do that matters most; it’s what skills you
love to use, among all those you can do. Passion plus competency, not just
competency alone, is key to securing employment. You will always feel
most passionate about the gifts and skills that you love to use.
Principle #5: In Creative Job-Hunting, You Treat Every Job-Hunt as
Though It Were a Career-Change. You break down your past jobs into
their basic building blocks, then rearrange those building blocks in a new
way so as to create the same job (now with its factors prioritized) or a new
one—your call.
Principle #6: You Must Always Prioritize. Mere random lists of assets
you have to offer to the job-market (factors, experiences, skills,
knowledges) are useless unless they are prioritized. The job you find may
overlap your dream job only to a certain degree; you need to be sure it is
your favorites that are in the overlap. I invented a Prioritizing Grid, which
allows you to prioritize a multitude of things by comparing them one by
one at a time, in pairs (see this page).
Principle #7: Go After Any Organization That Interests You, Whether
or Not They Are Known to Have a Vacancy. Don’t wait until they have
advertised a vacancy, when you will have oodles of competition.
Principle #8: Go After Small Companies (with 25, 50, or 100
Employees at Most). These are the best ones for a job-hunter or career-
changer to approach, especially job-hunters with handicaps, or older job-
hunters, or returning vets.
Principle #9: In Approaching an Organization, Try to Avoid the HR
(Human Resources) Department, If They Have One. HR’s job is
primarily to eliminate job-hunters, so the boss only has to interview a few
individuals out of the many who apply. Remember this mantra for job-
hunters: HR = Eliminate. If you are interviewed initially by HR, say
nothing that will get you eliminated. You want to be talking to the-person-
who-actually-has-the-power-to-hire-you-for-the-job-you-want.
Principle #10: Resumes Are a Lousy Way to Go About Finding a Job.
An employer typically looks through a pile of resumes, in print or online,
to see which ones to eliminate, so as to get the stack down to a manageable
size for interviewing. Resumes therefore have an atrocious success record
(only 1 out of 270 results in landing a job).
If you want to know, there are twelve ways job-hunters can search for
those jobs that are out there. The question is: which methods have the
highest success rate, which ones have the lowest? This is rarely ever talked
about. Scientific studies are impossible to come by. But a number of
articles, surveys, etc., over the past forty years have suggested that the four
methods with the highest success rate are: 1. Beginning with a self-
inventory (this apparently works 12 times better than resumes); 2. Joining
a job club with a step-by-step program (10 times the success rate of
resumes); 3. Using the Yellow Pages of your phone book (9 times the
success rate of resumes); 4. Knocking on the door of any employer,
preferably those with 50 employees or less (7 times the success rate of
resumes).
Principle #11: Use Contacts or “Bridge-People” to Get In for an
Interview. Resumes are just one way to get in to see employers. The chief
alternative is to approach an employer in person, using a contact or bridge-
person if possible, to secure an invitation. (A “bridge-person” is someone
who knows you well and also knows the organization you are trying to
reach, hence can serve as a bridge between you and them, and get you
invited in.)
Principle #12: Use Three Different Kinds of Interviews, in Your Job-
Search.
Practice Interviewing (sometimes called The Practice Field Survey).
This is done just to get used to interviewing. It involves interviewing
fellow enthusiasts, about any enthusiasm you have (such as movies,
skiing, computer games, reading, any hobby or curiosity). Its purpose
is to become comfortable with interviewing people, in a no-stress
environment (because a job isn’t being sought at this point).
“Informational 
Interviewing” 
(sometimes 
called 
Information
Interviewing). This involves interviewing workers who are doing work
a person thinks they might be interested in doing, in order to discover
if they are on the right track. The best and most up-to-date information
is not to be found in print or digital; it is to be found in face-to-face
conversation with people.
Interviewing for Hire. This involves interviewing employers, single
or a group, to discover if they want you and if you want them. When
systematized, these three types together are referred to as “The PIE
Method” (the invention of Daniel Porot).
Principle #13: Keep in Mind That in an Interview There Are Only
Five Questions an Employer Is Really Concerned About. Assuming
you are interviewing with someone who actually has-the-power-to-hire-
you, and not someone further down the food chain whose job is only to
eliminate as many candidates as possible, these are the five essential
questions they absolutely need answers to—even if they never ask you
these, directly. Anything you can do, during the interview, to help the
employer find the answers to these five questions will help make you an
outstanding candidate for the job.
1. “Why are you here?” This means, “Why are you knocking on our
door, rather than someone else’s door? How much do you know about
who we are, and what we do here?”
2. “What can you do for us?” This means, “If we were to hire you, will
you help us with the tasks and challenges we face here? What are
your relevant skills, and can you give us examples or stories from
your past, that demonstrate you have these skills? Tell us about
yourself.”
3. “What kind of person are you?” This means, “Will you not only fit
in, but actually inspire those around you? Will you be a pleasure to
work with or will you be a problem from day one? Do you have the
kind of personality that makes it easy for people to work with you,
and do you share the values that we have at this place? And by the
way, what is your greatest weakness?”
4. “What distinguishes you from, say, nineteen other people whom we
are interviewing for this job?” This means, “What about you will
give us more value for our money? What makes you unique or at least
unusual; do you get more done in a day, or are you better at problem
solving than others, do you have better work habits than others, do
you show up earlier, stay later, work more thoroughly, work faster,
maintain higher standards, go the extra mile, or…what? Give us
examples or stories from your past, that prove any of these claims.”
5. “Can we afford you?” This means, “If we decide we want you here,
how much will it take to get you, and are we willing and able to pay
that amount—governed, as we are, by our budget, and by our inability
to pay you as much as the person who would be next above you, on
our organizational chart?”
Principle #14: Notice Time in an Interview.
a. Half and Half. In an interview for hire, talk half the time, let the
employer talk half the time. If you dominate the interview, you come
across as self-absorbed; while if you speak too little you come across
to an employer as having something to hide.
b. 20 to 2. In an interview for hire, let the length of your answer to an
employer’s questions be between 20 seconds and 2 minutes at most.
(Employers hate job-hunters who drone on and on.)
c. Past, Present, Future. In an interview for hire, notice the time frame
of the questions the employer is asking. If the questions move from
the time frame of the distant past (“What school did you go to?”) to
the present (“What are you looking for now?”) to the distant future
(“Where would you like to be in five years?”), this generally means
the interview is going favorably for you.
Principle #15: At the End of All the Interviews at That Place, Ask for
the Job. Always, always, always ask for the job at the end of an interview,
assuming you decided you want to work there. It can be simply phrased:
“Considering all that we have discussed here, can you offer me this job?”
Often this will get you the job (I kid you not). My readers said so.
Principle #16: Always Send a Thank-You Note the Same Day. This
should be sent, without fail, to everyone you talked to at that place, that
day, digitally or handwritten/typed, or (preferably) both. (It need only be
two or three sentences.) Often this will get you the job. My readers said so.
Principle #17: Remember, Job-Hunting Is by Its Very Nature a Long
Process of Rejection. The pattern of your job-hunt will likely sound like
this, after interviewing at a number of places: “NO NO NO NO NO NO
NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO YES YES.” So, if the people you
have interviewed with eventually turn you down, don’t generalize from
this (“Employers will never hire me”). They are just part of the “No”s.
After each rejection, take comfort in the fact that you are one “NO” closer
to “YES” or even two “Yes”s.
Principle #18: Always Have Alternatives. It is crucial for you to have
alternatives, at every turn in your job-hunt; which means, more than just
one way to go about it, more than just one target, etc. This habit comes
more naturally to some people than to others. But staying hopeful, depends
on developing this habit.
Cheer up! Yes, it is a brand-new job-hunting world out there. But you
are not powerless, up against vast forces you cannot control. You control
this one thing above all else: how you search. And that, my friend, is the
key to finding not only work, but meaningful work. You were put here on
Earth for a reason. You need to find it. These are the steps.
1. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Table A-12, “Unemplyed
Persons by Duration of Unemployment,” April 2017.
2. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Table A-16, “Persons Not in
the Labor Force and Multiple Jobholders by Sex, Not Seasonally Adjusted,” April
2017.
3. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Economic News Release,
“Number of Jobs Held, Labor Market Activity, and Earnings Growth Among the
Youngest Baby Boomers: Results from a Longitudinal Survey Summary,” March
31, 2015, www.​bls.​gov/​news.​release/​nlsoy.​nr0.​htm.
4. Contract workers and “temp” workers are legally not the same category. An
employer can prescribe what a temp worker does and how they do it. The very
definition of independent contractor means the employer cannot. The two
categories are alike only in the relative shortness of employment.
5. And no, this is not due to the Affordable Care Act. See www.​advisorperspectives.​
com/​dshort/​commentaries/​Full-Time-vs-Part-Time-Employment.​php.
6. Jim Tankersley, “The 21st Century Has Been Terrible for Working Americans,”
Washington Post, March 6, 2015, www.​washingtonpost.​com/​blogs/​wonkblog/​wp/​
2015/​03/​06/​the-21st-century-has-been-terrible-for-working-americans.
7. “Internet of Things Community,” IEEE, www.​ieee.​org/​membership-catalog/​
productdetail/​showProductDetailPage.​html?
product=CMYIOT736&N=&tcType=#.
8. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Economic News Release,
“Number of Jobs Held, Labor Market Activity, and Earnings Growth Among the
Youngest Baby Boomers: Results from a Longitudinal Survey Summary,” March
31, 2015, www.​bls.​gov/​news.​release/​nlsoy.​nr0.​htm.
9. By Debra Angel MacDougall and Elisabeth Harney Sanders-Park. The book was
published by Worknet Training Services in 1997. A more recent book of theirs is
titled The 6 Reasons You’ll Get the Job: What Employers Look for—Whether They
Know It or Not, published in 2010 by Prentice Hall.
10. Rachel Gillett, “Infographic: How Much a Bad Hire Will Actually Cost You,” Fast
Company, April 8, 2014, www.​fastcompany.​com/​3028628/​work-smart/​
infographic-how-much-a-bad-hire-will-actually-cost-you (http://tinyurl.​com/​
ks4sbzf).
 
He or she who gets hired is not necessarily
The one who can do that job best;
But, the one who knows the most
About how to get hired.
—Richard Lathrop (1919–2001)
CHAPTER 2
Google Is Your New Resume
I know what you’re thinking. I’m out of work, I’ve got to go job-huntin’.
So the first thing I have to do is put together my resume.
Yeah, that used to be true.
In “the old days.”
Before the Internet came on the scene.
Back then, the only way an interviewer could learn much about you was
from a piece of paper that you yourself wrote—with maybe a little help
from your friends—called your resume, or C.V. (an academic term
meaning “curriculum vitae”).
On that paper was a summary of where you had been and all you had
done in the past. From that piece of paper, the employer was supposed to
guess what kind of person you are in the present and what kind of
employee you’d be in the future.
The good thing about this—from your point of view—was that you had
absolute control over what went on that piece of paper.
You could omit anything you didn’t want the employer to see, anything
that was embarrassing, or anything from your past that you have long since
regretted.
Short of their hiring a private detective, or talking to your previous
employers, a prospective employer couldn’t find out much else about you.
That was nice. But those days are gone forever.
Since 2008, or even before, there’s a new resume in town, and it’s called
Google.
All any prospective employer has to do now is Google your name—yes,
Google has become both noun and verb—and there’s your new resume,
using the word resume loosely.
If you’ve been anywhere near the Internet—and as of 2016, over 87% of
adults in the U.S. have—and if you’ve posted anything on Facebook,
Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, Pinterest, or YouTube, or if you have your
own website or webcasts or photo album or blog, or if you’ve been on
anyone else’s Facebook page, every aspect of you may be revealed
(depending on your privacy settings). Bye, bye, control.
So, naturally, almost all (91%) of U.S. employers have visited a job-
hunter’s profile on social networks, and more than 69% of employers have
rejected some applicants on the basis of what they found. Things that can
get you rejected: bad grammar or gross misspelling on your Facebook or
LinkedIn profile; anything indicating you lied on your resume; any
badmouthing of previous employers; any signs of racism, prejudice, or
screwy opinions about stuff; anything indicating alcohol or drug abuse;
and any—to put it delicately—inappropriate content, etc.1
What is sometimes forgotten is that this works both ways. Sometimes—
68% of the time, as it turns out—an employer will offer someone a job
because they liked what Google turned up about them. Things like the
creativity or professionalism you demonstrate online; your expressing
yourself extremely well online; their overall impression of your
personality online; the wide range of interests you exhibit online; and
evidence online that you get along well and communicate well with other
people.
Is there anything you can do about this new Google resume of yours?
Well, yes, actually, there are four things you can do.
You can edit, fill in, expand, and add. Let’s see what each of these
involves.
1. Edit
First of all, think of how you would like to come across, when you are
being considered for a job. Make a list of adjectives you’d like the
employer to think of, when they consider hiring you. For example, how
about: professional? experienced? inventive? hard working? disciplined?
honest? trustworthy? kind? What else? Make a list.
Then Google yourself and read over everything the search engine pulls
up about you. Go over any pages you have put up on social sites like
Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, or YouTube, and
remove anything you posted there, or allowed others to post, that
contradicts the impression you would like to make, anything that might
cause a would-be employer to think, “Uh, let’s not call them in, after all.”
You have the list, above, of what to look for.
If you don’t know how to remove an item from a particular site, type or
speak the following into a search engine like Google: “How to remove an
item from [Facebook]” or whatever.
The site itself may not tell you, but using your favorite search engine,
you should have no trouble finding somebody’s detailed, step-by-step
instructions for scrubbing any site.
I guarantee you’re hardly the first one with this need, so someone clever
has already figured out how to do it, and posted the answer. But you want
current instructions, so look at the date on the list of items the search
engine pops up. Pick the most recent, and do what they say.
If you want to be thorough, you should do this editing on any and all
sites that you find you’re on.
Now to the second of the four things you can do about your new Google
resume (so to speak).
2. Fill In
On any site, but on LinkedIn, Twitter, and Plaxo in particular, if they allow
you to fill out a profile, fill it out completely: cross every t, and dot every i,
have someone check your spelling. Leave no part of the profile blank
unless you have a very good reason.
Most importantly, be sure to keep each profile up-to-date. Really up-to-
date. Week by week, or at the least, month by month. There is nothing that
makes you look less professional than having an obviously outdated
profile.
LinkedIn
Last thought in this section: I mentioned LinkedIn; be sure to get on it, if
you’re not already (www.​linkedin.​com/​reg/​join). It’s the site of first
resort when some employer is curious about you. It allows corporate and
agency headhunters to avoid advertising an open position, but nonetheless
to go searching on LinkedIn for what employers call “passive job-
seekers.” (You ain’t lookin’ for them, but they are lookin’ for you.) Of
course you have no control over whether they find you, except for being
sure you have a completely filled-out profile. They search by keywords.
Any job-hunter working online these days will want to pay large
attention to LinkedIn. Here are some of the reasons why:
Background: This is “the Swiss army knife” of job-sites; it is a multi-
tool. It is used (at this writing) by at least 467 million people
worldwide, 133 million of them in the U.S. Employers from around the
world who are searching for prospective employees are among them.
General Description: LinkedIn gives you a “profile” page on which
you can write anything about yourself and your history that you want
to, using the standardized format or template that LinkedIn provides.
Usefulness to Job-Hunters: If you have contacted a particular
employer, most of them now search to see what there is about you on
LinkedIn (and on the Internet in general, anywhere and everywhere)
before inviting you in, or deciding to hire you.
Ways to Make It More Effective:2 Remember, this is a professional
site. If you are looking for work, don’t post anything here that isn’t
related to your professional goal. (Needless to say, leave out parties,
dating, summer vacations, etc.) Make your profile page really stand out
from others’ profile pages, when employers go browsing. There are
ways to do this. Here are some hints:
1. A PHOTO is mandatory. Every survey has revealed that not having
your photo posted there is a turnoff for most employers. The
likelihood that your LinkedIn profile will get viewed increases eleven
times if you include a photo. Make it a shot just of your head and
shoulders; in fact, fill the frame with just your head and shoulders.
Make it sharply focused and well lit, even if taken with an iPhone.
Dress up for this one. And smile.
2. In the section called JOB TITLE, if you aren’t searching for a career-
change, and you like what you’ve been doing, but the title they gave
you doesn’t contain the words that a hiring manager would normally
use to search for someone who does what you do, put in a slash mark,
then add the title they would use. Alternatively, if you are looking for
a change, after you list your current job title in this title section, enter
a slash and then add the industry you want to find a job in (so that an
employer’s search engine will pick you up).
3. In describing your PAST JOBS OR EXPERIENCE, don’t just make a
list of tasks or achievements. LinkedIn gives you enough space to tell
a story, so tell a story. Summarize some major achievement of yours,
in that job, and then tell a story of how you did it, and what the
measurable results were (time or money saved, or the profit created,
etc.). List your skills: you increase the likelihood that your LinkedIn
profile will be looked at by thirteen times, if you do.
4. In the SUMMARY be sure to state whatever you think gives you a
competitive advantage in your field—i.e., what makes you a better
hire than nineteen other people who might compete for the kind of job
you want. This is a place to highlight what makes you the best (or, for
the modest, what makes you a better) choice for that kind of job.
5. Under SPECIALTIES list every keyword you can think of that would
lead a search engine to find you for the job you want. If you don’t
know what keywords to list, find someone on LinkedIn who already
has a job like the one you want, and see what keywords they listed.
Copy the ones that seem relevant in your case.
6. LIST any hobbies, interests, education, training, community service,
associations you belong to, etc.
7. ADD LINKS TO ANY WEBSITE you feel would help you stand out:
your blog? (if you have one, and posts there are solely devoted to
your area of expertise); your Twitter account? (if you have one, and if
you’ve only been posting tweets that manifest your expertise in your
field); your Facebook page? (doubtful, unless it looks very focused
and professional—if it’s sloppy, real personal, and all over the map in
its content, it is unlikely to help you get hired, and may in fact hinder
you). Consider filming a video of you discussing some area of your
expertise (with numbers if possible), post it on YouTube, and link to
it on your profile page here. If you don’t know how to shoot and
upload the video, there are loads of free instructions (even on
YouTube) telling you step by step how to do this.
8. JOIN one or more LinkedIn groups, related to your expertise. Post
sparingly but regularly, when they are discussing something you are
an expert on. You want to get a name and reputation, in your field.
“Groups” are in the bar across the top of your home page. Once
you’ve filled out your profile completely, click on “Groups” and then
on the subheading “Groups You May Like.” It will make suggestions,
based on your profile, with information about each group, as to
whether it is Very Active, Active, or very neglected. Join ones, related
to your expertise, which are at least Active. Be aware, if you join a
group and then don’t ever contribute, LinkedIn has a cute little habit
of summarily removing you from that group without any advance
warning. Just a nice brief note after the fact, saying “We removed
you” due to your inactivity there. (And you thought they weren’t
paying attention! Oh yes, they do. They are. They will.)
9. You can use LinkedIn to DESCRIBE a project you’re proud of, post a
photo, or report on a recent professional event. As every job
contributes to “the bottom line,” mention any way you did that in past
jobs: say how you controlled costs or generated revenue. To post this
also on Twitter, always begin not with Twitter but with LinkedIn.
Write your update here, check the box with the Twitter icon, and then
click “Share.”
Now to the third thing you can do about your new Google resume.
3. Expand
Expand your presence on the Internet. How to do this? Several ways:
Forums. Professional sites like LinkedIn have forums, or groups,
organized by subject matter. Other social networking sites, like
Facebook, have pages devoted to particular subjects. Look through the
directory of those groups or forums, choose one or two that are related
to your industry or interests, and after signing up, speak up regularly
whenever you have something to say that will quietly demonstrate you
are an expert in your chosen subject area. Otherwise, keep quiet. Don’t
speak up about just anything. You want to be seen as a specialist—
knowledgeable and focused. You want to get noticed by employers
when they’re searching for expert talent in your field or specialty.
Blogs. Start a blog (that’s short for “web log,” which many people now
don’t remember), if you don’t already have one. It doesn’t matter what
your expertise is; if it’s related to the job you are looking for, do a
blog, and update it regularly. And if you don’t know how to blog, there
are helpful sites such as Blogger.​com that give you detailed
instructions. Incidentally, there are reportedly over 152 million blogs
on the Internet. Figure out how to make yours stand out.
If you already have a blog, but it roams all over the countryside in
terms of subject matter, then start a new blog that is more narrowly
preoccupied with your particular area of expertise. Post helpful articles
there, focused on action steps, not just thoughts. Let’s say you are an
expert plumber; you can post entries on your blog that deal with such
problems as “how to fix a leaky toilet,” etc. Generally speaking,
employers are looking for blogs that deal with concrete action, rather
than lofty philosophical thought. Unless, of course, they represent a
think tank.
Twitter. Some experts claim that blogs are so yesterday.
Communication, they say, is moving toward brief, and briefer. Texting
has become hugely, hugely, popular. So has Twitter: 23% of U.S.
adults use Twitter. Twitter’s advantage is that it has hashtags, and
Google is indexing all those tags and “tweets.” Savvy employers know
how to do Twitter searches on Google (or on Twitter itself, for that
matter). All you have to figure out is which hashtags employers are
likely to look for, when they want to find someone with your expertise
and experience.
Videos. Presentation is moving strongly these days toward the visual.
People like to see you, not just read you. Expensive equipment not
required. The Flip video camcorder used to be the most popular and
inexpensive way to record yourself, but that is ancient history, now. It
was displaced, as you might guess, by smartphones, which usually can
do video, and sometimes rather surprisingly good video.
As for where to post your video, once you’ve shot and edited it, the
champion of course is YouTube—1 billion users, 4 billion views per
day. But there are other choices: see PCGDigitalMarketing’s list,
found at http://tinyurl.​com/​8owtlbo.
Now to the fourth and final thing you can do about your new Google
resume.
4. Add
It will take any employer or HR department some time to sift through all
the stuff about you that may appear when they do a Google search. You
would help them by summarizing and organizing the pertinent information
about yourself. You do this by—surprise!—composing an old-type
resume. And you can post it on the Internet (where Google will find it), as
well as taking or sending it to an interested employer.
You wanna do this? Of course you do. Here’s an outline you may find
useful for gathering that information about yourself.
Since a resume is about your past, this gives you a framework for
recalling that past.
A Starter Kit for Writing Your Resume3
Think of your working and personal skills that you believe you possess
innately, or have picked up along the way. Which ones are you proud of?
What things have you done in your life or work experience that no one else
has done, in quite the same way? Take some blank sheets of paper and fill
in any answers that occur to you.
It is important to be quantitative when you do this (e.g., mention dates,
percentages, dollars, money or time saved, brand names, etc.).
Volunteer, Community, and Unpaid Work
1. Have you completed any voluntary or unpaid work for any
organization or company? (e.g., church, synagogue, mosque, school,
community service, or special needs organization)
Educational
2. Did you work while you were studying? If so, did you receive any
promotions or achievements in that role?
3. Did you gain any scholarships?
4. Were you involved in any committees, etc.?
5. Did you win any awards for study?
6. Did you have any high (e.g., A or A+) grades? If so, what were the
subjects—and grades?
Sales or Account Management
Have you ever been in sales? If so, what were some of your achievements?
For example:
7. Have you ever consistently exceeded your set budget in that role? If
so, by what percent or dollar value?
8. Have you exceeded your set budget in a particular month(s)/quarter(s)
in a role? If so, by what percent or dollar value?
9. What level were you, compared to other sales professionals in your
company? (e.g., “Number three out of twenty on the sales team.”)
10. Have you ever increased market share for your company? If so, by
what percent or dollar value?
11. Have you ever brought in any major clients to your company?
12. What major clients are/were you responsible for managing and selling
to?
13. Did you ever manage to generate repeat business or increase current
business? If so, by what percent or dollar value?
14. Have you won any internal or external sales awards?
15. Did you develop any new successful promotional or marketing ideas
that increased sales?
Administration, Customer Service, and Accounts
Have you ever been in customer service or helped run a business unit? If
so:
16. Did you assist in reducing customer complaints, etc.?
17. Did you set up or improve any systems and/or processes?
18. Was there a quantifiable difference in the company or business unit
when you first joined the business or project and when you completed
the project or left the business?
19. Did you take any old administration or paperwork-based systems and
convert them into an IT-based system?
Responsibility
20. Have you ever been responsible for the purchase of any goods or
services in some job? (e.g., air travel or PC acquisition)
21. Have you ever had any budget responsibility? If so, to what level?
(e.g., “Responsible for division budget of $200,000 per annum.”)
22. Have you ever been responsible for any staff oversight? If so, in what
capacity and/or how many staff members were you responsible for?
23. Were you responsible for any official or unofficial training? If so,
what type, for whom, and how many people have you trained? (e.g.,
“Responsible for training twelve new staff in customer service as well
as in using the in-house computer system.”)
24. Were you responsible for any official or unofficial coaching or
mentoring of other staff?
Events or Conference Planning or Logistical
Management
25. Have you organized any events or conferences? If so, how large were
they (both people attending and total budget if possible) and where
and when was the event(s) held?
26. Have you been involved in any major relocation projects?
27. Have you had responsibility with regard to any major suppliers? If so,
who?
Computers
28. What systems, software, and hardware experience do you have?
Desktop, notebook, mobile, smartphones? Mac OS, Android, or
Windows? And how deep is your expertise with any of these?
29. What software have you utilized? Or what software have you
developed? Mobile apps? Systems software?
30. Have you developed any websites? If so, what were they, and did
they positively affect any business you were doing? Are you on
LinkedIn, Plaxo, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, etc., and if so, how
deep an expertise do you have with any of these sites?
31. Were you involved in any special projects that were outside of your
job description?
Mechanical
32. Other than computers, have you had experience on any kinds of
machines or equipment? Please list them together with the number of
years.
33. If you ever worked on transportation devices, what were the airplane,
farm equipment, truck, car, machine, or bike brands that you serviced,
maintained, or repaired?
Building, Construction, Electrical, and Plumbing
34. If you ever worked in those fields, were there any major projects you
worked on? How much did the project(s) cost? (e.g., “Reception
refurbishment—ABC Bank [Auckland Central Head Office] $1.2m.”)
General
35. How long have you spent within any industry? (e.g., “Twelve years’
experience within the fashion industry.”)
36. Were you promoted in any of your roles? If so, in what years and to
which roles?
37. Was extra authority awarded to you after a period of time within a
role? (e.g., “Commenced as receptionist; then, after three months,
awarded by being given further clerical responsibilities including data
entry and accounts payable.”) It is not necessary that these
responsibilities awarded to you should have changed your job title
and/or salary.
38. Have you been asked to take part in, or lead, any trainee management
courses or management development programs?
39. Were you asked to get involved in any special projects outside your
job description? Or, did you ever volunteer for such? What was the
result?
Positive Feedback
40. Have you ever received any written or verbal client, customer, or
managerial commendations or letters of praise?
41. Can you think of any occasions where you gave excellent customer
service? If so, how did you know the customer was satisfied? (Also:
What was the outcome? How did it benefit the company?)
42. Did you receive any awards within your company or industry? (e.g.,
“Acknowledged for support or service of clients or staff, etc.”)
Memberships
43. Have you been a representative on any committees (e.g., health and
safety committee)? Any special responsibilities there?
44. Do you belong or have you belonged to any professional clubs such
as Toastmasters, Lions, or Rotary?
Published or Presented Work
45. Have you had any articles, papers, or features published in any
magazines, journals, or books? If so, what publications and when?
Have you written any books?
46. Have you presented any topics at any conferences or completed any
public speaking? If so, what subjects have you talked about and how
large was the audience? List in detail.
Looking Ahead
47. What value do you think you would add to a potential employer’s
business? How would you be “a resource” or even “a resource-
broker” for them, rather than just “a job-beggar”? What kind of
problems are you good at solving?
48. How do you think you would stand out compared to other applicants
who have about the same qualifications as you have?
That should give you a good start. Modify the list any way you want to
—add items and questions to it, change the wording, whatever.
If you need additional guidance, search Google for the topic “keywords
on an electronic resume” or “examples of resumes.” Or “how to write a
resume,” or “tips on writing a resume.” This will turn up not only free
resources and advice on the Internet and for-fee resources, such as
professional resume writers, but also the names of books, if you want to
get very thorough.4
As for what is the proper form for a resume, there are no rules. The only
question is: is there a particular place or kind of place where you’d like to
work, and if so, will the person there who has the power to hire you for the
kind of job you want, be persuaded by your resume to invite you in? If the
answer is, Yes, then it matters not what form your resume takes.
To illustrate my point, I used to have a hobby of collecting “winning”
resumes—that is, resumes that had actually gotten someone an interview
and, ultimately, a job. Being playful by nature, I would show these without
comment, to employer friends of mine, over lunch. Many of them didn’t
like these winning resumes at all. “That resume will never get anyone a
job,” they would say. Then I would reply, “Sorry, you’re wrong. It already
has. I think what you mean is that it wouldn’t get them a job with you.”
The resume reproduced on this page is a good example of what I mean;
it’s dated, but it’s still my favorite.
Like the employer who hired him, I loved this resume. Yet some of the
employers I showed it to (over lunch, as I said) criticized it for using a
picture or for being too long, or for being too short, etc. In other words,
had Mr. Dyer sent that resume to them, they wouldn’t have invited him in
for an interview.
Click here to download a PDF of the Sample Winning Resume.
Wild Life, by John Kovalic, ©1989 Shetland Productions. Reprinted with permission.
The brutal truth is, no matter how skillfully you write and post your
resume, some employers will like it, some won’t. Trouble is, if you’re
interested in some employer, you don’t know which category they fit into.
That’s why many job-hunters, if they use resumes, pray as they post their
resume: Please, dear God, let them be employers who like resumes in
general, and may the form of my resume appeal to those employers I care
about, in particular.
Whatever form you decide on, write the resume and then post it
everywhere you can, online: on the omnibus job-boards, famous job-
boards, community bulletin boards, and niche sites. For lists of such sites,
go to the LiveCareer website, which you can find at www.​livecareer.​com/​
quintessential/​indres.
Incidentally, if this all seems like just too much trouble, there are
resume distribution services that will do this blanket posting for you, if
you wish, sometimes without a fee, but most often for fees ranging from
$50 to $100. Whether it will pay you or not to use one of these services is,
in my opinion, largely a matter of luck. Blind, dumb, luck. Personally, I’d
always try to do this myself before giving money to anyone else.
If you decide to do this for yourself, my advice is: post it right on the
actual website of companies that interest you, if they have a site, and if
their site permits that. This, of course, assumes you have figured out where
you would most like to work, if they’ll have you (more on this later in the
book). In this post-2008 period, I recommend you pay particular attention
to small employers (first try those with 25 or less employees, then 50 or
less, and then 100 or less). Also you’re likely to have better luck with
newer organizations (7 years old or less).
If you post your resume on the sites of particular employers, large or
small, don’t count on any acknowledgment or reply. Just post the thing,
cross your fingers, and pray it arrives at the right time, at the right place,
into the hands of the right person: the one who actually has the power to
hire you. Sad truth: many employers don’t even look at the resumes posted
on their site.
Alternatives to the Classic Resume
A cover letter was, for decades, something you sent along with your
resume. Now, many employers prefer a cover letter instead of your
resume. That brief cover letter can summarize all that a longer resume
might have covered. I get this kind of report all the time, from successful
job-hunters: “Cover letter. Make it personal and specific to THAT job. I
was directly told in two interviews that my unique cover letter got me in
the door. I researched the companies….”
If you don’t know what a cover letter is, or how to write it, the Internet
can rescue you handily. Look especially for Susan Ireland’s Cover Letter
Guide at http://susanireland.​com/​letter/​how-to/. It’s good, and it’s free.
You can also consult the cover letter chapter in my little book, What Color
Is Your Parachute? Guide to Rethinking Resumes (Ten Speed Press,
2014).
Another alternative to a classic resume is a Job or Career Portfolio. A
portfolio may be electronic (posted on the Internet) or on paper/in a
notebook/in a large display case (as with artists), demonstrating your
accomplishments, experience, training, commendations, or awards, from
the past. Artists have a portfolio, with samples of their work. You probably
knew that. But portfolios are equally apt in other fields.
Instead of “portfolio” we might just call them, “Evidence of What I Can
Do and Have Done,” or “Proof of Performance.” For guidance on how to
prepare a job portfolio, and what to include, simply type “job or career
portfolio” into Google; you’ll get a wealth of tips and information, such as
www.​livecareer.​com/​quintessential/​job_search_portfolio.
Some Friendly Reminders About Your
“Pre-Google Resume”
1. If you’re blanketing the Internet with that resume, be cautious about
including any stuff on the resume that would help someone find out
where you live or work, particularly if you’re a female. No, I’m not
being sexist. It’s just that, sad to say, there are some sick people out
there. Sick in the head, that is. If I were you, I’d be sure to leave out
my address and home phone number. Just an email address should
more than suffice.
2. If you are targeting particular employers, rather than or in addition to
broad job-sites, keep in mind that a resume is best not sent solely by
email, particularly if it’s an attachment, and not embedded in the
body of the email. Many employers, leery of viruses, will not even
open email attachments (and that includes your resume). Send it by
email if you must, but always send a nicer version of it by the postal
service, or UPS, or FedEx, etc.
3. If you’re going to snail-mail a resume to a target employer, pay
attention to the paper you write or print it on. Picture this scenario: an
employer is going through a whole stack of resumes, and on average
he or she is giving each resume about eight seconds of their time
(true: we checked!). Then that resume goes into either a pile we might
call “Forgeddit,” or a pile we might call “Bears further investigation.”
And what determines which pile it goes into? Surprise! It’s the feel of
the paper. Yes, that employer’s first contact with your resume is with
their fingers, assuming this is in a stack of printed resumes (not
digital ones). By the pleasure or displeasure of their fingers, as they
first pick up your resume, they are prejudiced for or against you
before they even start reading. Usually they are blissfully unaware of
this. Anyway, this is why you want the paper to feel good. That
usually means using paper weighing at least 28 pounds (a paper’s
weight is on the outside of every package). And you want it to be
easy to read—so be sure it’s nicely laid out or formatted, using a
decent-sized font, size 12 or even 14, etc.
4. A resume should have a purpose, at least in your mind. It might be
that you’re posting it online, just to collect and organize all pertinent
information about yourself in one place, so that when an employer
Googles you they find this, nice and concise, in contrast to all the
other stuff about you that Google will find, scattered all over the
Internet.
5. Your sole purpose, for your resume, if you’re targeting individual
employers, is to get yourself invited in for an interview. Period. This
truth, unfortunately, is not widely known. Most job-hunters (and more
than a few resume writers) assume a resume’s purpose is to “sell
you,” or secure you a job. It does happen. But primarily the purpose
of a resume is just to get invited in for an interview, where it will then
be time for you to sell yourself. In person. Face to face. Not on paper.
So, once written, go back and read over every single sentence in your
resume and evaluate it by this one standard: “Will this item help to
get me invited in? Or will this item seem too puzzling, or off-putting,
or a red flag?” If you doubt a particular sentence will help get you
invited in for an interview, then omit that sentence. If it’s important to
you, give yourself a note to be sure to cover it in the interview. And if
there is something you feel you will ultimately need to explain, or
expand upon, save that explanation also for the interview. Your
resume is, above all, no place for “true confessions.” (“I kind of
botched up, at the end, in that job; that’s why they let me go, as I’m
sure they’ll tell you when you check my references.”) If you want the
interviewer to know that, in the interest of full disclosure, don’t put it
in your resume. Save true confessions for the end of the interview,
and only if you’re confident at that point that they really want you,
and you really want them.
6. The same advice applies to discussing any nonvisible or non-obvious
handicap you may have. Generally speaking—there are exceptions—
don’t mention it as early as the resume. And even when you’re in the
interview, don’t discuss right off the bat what you can’t do. Focus all
their attention, initially, on what you can do—that you can perform
all the tasks required in this job. Save what you can’t do for the
moment when they say they really want you.
7. If you’re coming out of some subculture that has its own language
(e.g., the military, clergy, etc.) get some help in translating your
experience into the language of employers. For example, “preached”
should be replaced by “taught.” “Commanded” should be replaced by
“supervised,” etc.
8. “Keywords” are important if you’re posting your resume without
specific employers in mind. A good article about keywords—what
they are, and how to insert them into your resume—can be found in
Squawkfox’s article, “8 Keywords That Set Your Resume on Fire,” at
www.​squawkfox.​com/​8-keywords-that-set-your-resume-on-fire.
9. Finally, don’t include references on your resume. Some career
counselors and resume writers will disagree with me on this, but I
think references are better offered after prospective employers have
had a chance to see and talk with you. And please, please, please,
never list somebody as a reference, at any time in your job-hunt,
without first getting their written permission to do so. Be aware that
your references, if they are checked out, will often be checked out
over the phone, rather than in writing. But in case you may need
something in writing, if your references permit you to use their name,
ask them to give the letter of recommendation to you. You want to
screen your references, believe me you do! Don’t assume they’ll give
you a raving recommendation. Some of your preferred reference
writers may turn out to be people who are by nature brutally honest. If
they’ve never actually seen you at work, for example, they may say
so, and decline to say whether you’d be an asset or not. That kind of
“recommendation” is honest, but it won’t do you any good. You want
to find this out before any prospective employer sees it. Then you can
decide whether you want to use it or deep-six it, before you go into
the interview.
10. Hard fact to learn, but you must learn it: some employers hate
resumes. Why should that be any surprise? Currently, according to
experts, 82% of all resumes have to be checked out, concerning the
facts stated or the experience claimed. Lies are spreading like a
plague, on resumes. Another hard fact: some employers love resumes.
Unfortunately, it’s not for the reasons you think. They love them
because they offer an easy way to cut down the time they have to
spend interviewing candidates for a vacancy. Don’t forget this: for an
employer, hiring is essentially an elimination game. Particularly
where a lot of people are applying, they’re reading over your resume
looking for one thing: a reason—any reason—to eliminate you, so
they can cut that stack of resumes down to a manageable number for
face-to-face interviewing (say, three to eight). Surveys show it only
takes a skilled human resources person about eight seconds to scan a
resume (thirty seconds, if they’re really dawdling), so getting rid of
fifty job-hunters—I mean getting rid of fifty resumes—takes only
half an hour or less. Whereas, interviewing those fifty job-hunters in
person would have required a minimum of twenty-five hours. Great
time savings—for them! No wonder employers invented resumes!
Where You Post Your Resume Makes a
Difference
Let’s say that again: where you post your resume makes all the difference
in the world. Research has discovered that the number of face-to-face
interviews that employers need to conduct before they find someone they
want to hire, stays pretty constant—around 5.4—once they’ve sifted
through all the resumes or applications. So, to conserve their energy, they
instinctively ask themselves, “Where would I have to sift through the least
number of resumes, before I decide who to do those 5.4 interviews with?”
Fortunately, we know the answer. Somebody did a study.5
If employers post their vacancy on a job-board such as Monster.​com or
CareerBuilder.​com, they typically have to look through 219 resumes from
job-hunters who respond, before they find someone to interview and hire.
If employers consider resumes from job-hunters who come through
social media sites, such as LinkedIn or Facebook, they typically have to
look through 116 resumes, before they find someone to interview and hire.
If employers post their vacancy on their own website, they typically
have to look through 33 resumes from job-hunters who respond, before
they find someone to interview and hire.
And if the job-hunter takes the initiative to find a very specific job,
rather than waiting to find a vacancy, and does this, say, by typing the
name of that kind of job into a search engine, then sending resumes to any
companies whose name turns up, employers only have to look through 32
applications, before they find someone to interview and hire.
And if the job-hunter takes even more initiative, chooses a company
where they’d like to work, and gets a referral (i.e., gets some employee
within that company to recommend them), employers have to look through
only 10 such candidates, before they find someone to interview and hire.
Summary
Okay, one more time: since 2008, do you need a resume?
Well, no you don’t, and yes you do.
You already have a kind of resume without lifting a finger, if you’ve
been posting anything on the Internet. Google is your new resume. What
an employer finds out about you simply by Googling your name, helps
determine whether you get hired or not.
You’ve got to clean up what they’ll find, before they find it. Edit, fill in,
expand, and add to it, before they see it.
But that, alone, is not enough. You need to summarize and organize the
information about yourself in one place, online or off. And that means, you
need to write the old kind of resume, that you did pre-2008.6
Once written, you can go two ways with it. The first way is just to post
it everywhere on the Internet, which is akin to nailing it to a tree in the
town square, where everyone can see it. You just post it as is.
The second way is to send it to particular employers whom you have
targeted, hoping that resume will get you an interview. Here you will need
to edit it, before sending it to any employer. You will need to weigh every
sentence in it by one criterion and one only: will this help get me invited
in, for an interview at this place? If the answer is No, you must edit or
remove that sentence.
Because, these are the most fundamental truths about approaching
individual employers:
The primary purpose of a resume is to get yourself invited in for an
interview.
The primary purpose of that interview is to get yourself invited back for
a second interview.
The primary purpose of the second and subsequent interviews there, is
to help them decide that they like you and want you, once you’ve decided
that you like them, and could do some of your best work there.
1. Speaking of “inappropriate,” just remember this little detail: you have “a search
history”—on Google, Bing, or whatever search engine you typically use. That
history records everything you’ve ever gone looking for, on the Internet. Now,
probably employers can’t access it (they’d need your account’s password). And
most employers would have no interest in going so deep. But if you want super
peace of mind, you can erase some or all of your search history, now. It’s quite
easy. If you frequently use Google as your search engine, go to http://google.​com/​
history, then log in to your Google account. Voilà! There’s your history; look it
over, and if you want to erase it, in whole or in part, click the gear icon in the upper
right there, choose Settings, then choose Delete plus Turn Off History. With Bing,
go to https://bing.​com/​profile/​history and there you can likewise turn off or delete
your search history.
And by the way, for the future, if you want to search without any history being
kept, there are alternate search engines you might want to switch to, such as
DuckDuckGo (https://duckduckgo.​com/​about).
2. I am indebted here to Patrick Schwerdtfeger, Susan Joyce, Alison Doyle, Jason
Alba, Dan DeMaioNewton, and other colleagues for their ideas.
3. This is adapted, with the written permission of my friend Tom O’Neil, from an
original document of his, which was and is copyright protected under the New
Zealand Copyright Act (1994) © cv.co.nz 2001. You may contact Tom at
www.cv.co.nz.
4. Oh, and speaking of books, a supplement to this chapter is found in my little What
Color Is Your Parachute? Guide to Rethinking Resumes (Ten Speed Press, 2014).
5. From an analysis, released in April 2011, by Jobs2web Inc., of 1,300,000 job
applications and 26,000 hires in 2010.
6. For additional reading and guidance: What Color Is Your Parachute? Guide to
Rethinking Resumes, a little over $10 online or at bookstores.
 
God grant me the serenity
To accept the things I cannot change,
The courage to change the things I can,
And the wisdom to know the difference.
—Reinhold Niebuhr (1892–1971)
CHAPTER 3
There Are Over Ten Million
Vacancies Available Each Month
The Job-Hunt Hasn’t Changed in Its
Essence Since 2008
Yes, I know this contradicts what I said in the first chapter. But there you
have it. Both things are true: the job-hunt has changed dramatically since
2008, yet the job-hunt hasn’t really changed at all since 2008.
How can they both be true? The answer lies in the distinction between
essence and surface behavior or form.
The surface behavior or form of the job-hunt is always changing, often
dramatically, as we saw in the first and second chapters. This, because job-
hunt behavior at any given time is determined by the current technology.
And when a new technology arises—think computers, think Internet, think
smartphone, think digital resumes, think the Internet of Things—job-
hunting alters. On the surface.
But beneath all surface change, the essence of the job-hunt never really
changes. Job-hunting is all about human nature, and in its essence is most
like the human activity that we call dating. Both shake down to: “Do you
like me?” and “Do I like you?” If the answer to both is “Yes,” then it’s
“Do you want to try goin’ steady?” In dating. In job-hunting. So, if you
focus on essence rather than form, the job-hunt remains essentially
constant year after year.
First question: “Do you like me?” In the job-interview that means “Hey
employer, you are looking for someone who can do this thing that you
want done, and can get along with you and the other people here. So, given
that, do you like me?”
Second question: “Do I like you?” In the job-interview that means “Are
you going to give me a work environment that will enable me to be at my
most productive and most effective level, where I feel useful and
appreciated, and can make a difference?”
Both questions are equally important, and permissible to ask. But that
second question needs to be emphasized, underlined, and written in large
letters because when we are job-hunting we are so prone to think all power
belongs to employers. They have every right to ask their question. We
have no right to ask ours—or so street-wisdom claims.
But wait a minute. Meditate on why we have the word quit in our
vocabulary, as in “I quit,” and you will realize that the job-hunt and job
are always a matter of the job-hunter or worker asking themselves “Do I
like you?” And if you conclude, “No I don’t really like you,” or “I really
hate it here,” then eventually you quit.
Your big decision is, do I wait three years to find out the answer to my
question, or do I try to find it out now, during the job-hunt in general,
during the job-interview in particular?
The job-hunt is a conversation—a two-way conversation—wherein your
opinion matters as much as the employer’s. That always has been true.
Always will be.
You Are Not as Powerless as You Think
If you’re currently out of work, and looking for a job, you have every
reason in the world to think you are up against overwhelming forces and
the situation you face is rather hopeless. You may have struck out, again
and again. The media is always filled with bad news, about the
unemployed, since 2008. But the situation you face is not hopeless. In the
world today, you have more power than you think, even with all the bad
news and these great forces that you are up against since 2008. It may not
be a lot of power, but then, it doesn’t have to be. I want to tell you a story
that illustrates this.
Some years ago, when I was doing a lot of counseling, not just about
careers, a friend of mine asked me if I would be willing to see someone he
knew. Her name was Mary. She had been diagnosed with multiple
sclerosis, or MS. She had been to a wide range of medical specialists:
neurologist, psychologist, internist, you name it. They all had declared
there was nothing they could do to help her with the disease. My friend
said, “Would you see her?” “Sure,” I said, “but I’m not sure there’s
anything I can do.”
The next day my friend brought her over. She walked very stiffly up the
front sidewalk, came in, sat down, and after exchanging a few pleasantries,
I got down to business. “Mary,” I said, “what is multiple sclerosis?”
“I don’t know,” she said, in a dull, emotionless voice. “Well then,” I
said, “that makes us even; because I don’t know, either. But here’s what I
propose. I’m sure that a huge proportion of whatever MS is, is out of your
control. There’s nothing you can do about it. But that proportion can’t be
100%. There’s got to be some proportion—let’s say it’s even just 2%, or
5%—that is within your control. We could work on that. Do you want to
begin that journey?” She said yes. Over the next few weeks she improved,
and finally was free of all symptoms (typical of the disease for a spell, but
this lasted for a very long time), and now—free of all stiffness—she
became a model on 57th Street in New York City.
So it is, that in any situation you find yourself, no matter how
overwhelmed you may feel, no matter how much you may feel you’re at
the mercy of huge forces that are beyond your control, some part of it is
within your control: maybe 2%, 5%, who knows? There is always
something you can work on. Something that is within your power. And
often, changing that little bit results in changing a whole lot. Maybe not as
dramatic a change as with Mary; but change nonetheless.
You are not powerless during the job-hunt. Maybe the employer has an
overwhelming amount of power in the whole job-hunt. But the employer
does not hold all the cards.
That is what never changes.
Of course, you will object, “Well, that may be true during normal times,
but these ain’t normal times. Even this long after the 2008 recession, good-
paying jobs are still scarce. I cannot afford to be picky. There are very few
vacancies out there.”
Where did we ever get that idea? From the media, that’s where. Two
reports come out each month in the U.S., about the state of the job-market.
One of those reports is usually hopeful. One of them is usually depressing.
Both of them are put out by the federal government, in fact, by the same
branch of the U.S. government (the Bureau of Labor Statistics). The media
invariably choose to publish, analyze, and lament only one of those two
reports—the depressing one.
That report comes out on the first Friday of each month, with rare
exceptions. It is typically called “news about the unemployment rate,”
though it is more accurate to think of it as “news of the net change in the
size of the working workforce in the U.S.” Its technical name is the
Current Population Survey (www.​bls.​gov/​cps). Let’s take a typical month,
say, April 2017. It said only 211,000 jobs were added to the economy.
With some 18,035,000 people wanting work that month—7,056,000 fully
unemployed, and the rest, marginally attached, discouraged, or involuntary
part-timers wanting full-time jobs—that was not good news.
But, there was that other report from the same department of the
government. It comes out two months later. It’s called JOLTS, which
stands for Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (www.​bls.​gov/​jlt).
It said that during that same month of April 2017, 5,051,000 people found
work, and even so, 4,973,000 vacancies remained unfilled at the end of
that month.
You do the math. (Okay, then, I will.) That was over 10,000,000 jobs
available in the U.S. during the month of April 2017. And this is typical, in
the U.S., month in and month out.
What’s going on, here? Why such a difference between the two reports?
Well, let me give you a parallel situation, on a much smaller scale.
Suppose I own a dress shop. You come in to visit me, and for fun you
count the number of dresses I have in the shop. It turns out I have 100.
You leave that day, and you don’t return for a whole month. Upon your
return, you count, again for fun, how many dresses I have in the shop now
—one month later. It turns out I have 95. So you say to me, “Oh, I see you
only sold 5 dresses this month. Poor you.”
“No,” I smile, “I added to the inventory during the month.” “How
many?” you ask. “50,” I say.
You stop, and calculate: 100 + 50 minus 95. “Oh, so you actually sold
55 dresses this past month.” I say, “Right.”
5 vs. 55. You get the first figure, if what you’re looking for is the net
change in the size of the inventory in my shop, with visits a month apart;
you get quite a different figure if what you’re looking for is the actual
change in my inventory day by day throughout the entire month.
It’s the same with the two U.S. government reports. Not 5 vs. 55, but
211,000 vs. over 10,000,000.
Of course, the question for us when we’re out of work is, “If there are
typically eight to ten million jobs available each month, why didn’t I get
one of them?” That’s the subject of the rest of this book.
In Conclusion, for Now
Job-hunting is not a science; it is an art. Some job-hunters know
instinctively how to do it; in some cases, they were born knowing how to
do it. Others of us sometimes have a harder time with it, but fortunately for
us in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world, there is help, coaching,
counseling, and advice—online and off.
Job-hunting is always mysterious. Sometimes mind-bogglingly
mysterious. You may never understand why things sometimes work, and
sometimes do not.
There is no “always wrong” way to hunt for a job or to change
careers. Anything may work under certain circumstances, or at certain
times, or with certain employers. There are only degrees of likelihood of
certain job-hunting techniques working or not working. But it is crucial to
know that likelihood (see chapter 6).
There is no “always right” way to hunt for a job or to change careers.
Anything may fail to work under certain circumstances, or at certain times,
or with certain employers. There are only degrees of likelihood of certain
job-hunting techniques working or not working. But it is crucial to know
that likelihood, as we just saw. Job-hunting always depends on some
amount of luck.
Job-hunting is, or should be, a full-time job. If your job-hunt isn’t
working, you must increase the amount of time you’re devoting to your
job-hunt. If you want to devote as little time to your job-hunt as possible,
then fine; try it. But if that doesn’t lead to a job, then you are going to have
to devote more time to it. By the way, there is an app for your iPhone or
Android that helps you stay on track by nudging you about your job-
hunting activities each day. Its author is Marshall J. Karp, and it’s free:
www.​jobsearchpowermeter.​com. Its display may show only one column,
but there are actually three columns; swipe left or right to see the other
two. The left column is the one you most want. Your object: to get into
“the green” part of the Meter each day, by doing the activities it suggests.
Nice app!
THE TEN GREATEST MISTAKES MADE IN
JOB-INTERVIEWS
Whereby Your Chances of Finding a Job Are Greatly Decreased
I. Going after large organizations only (such as the Fortune 500).
II. Hunting all by yourself for places to visit.
III. Doing no homework on an organization before going there.
IV. Allowing the Human Resources department to interview you
(their primary function is to look for reasons to screen you
OUT).
V. Setting no time limit when you first begin the interview, and
then overstaying your welcome.
VI. Letting your resume be the only agenda discussed during the
job-interview.
VII. Talking primarily about yourself throughout the interview, and
what benefit the job will be for you.
VIII. Failing to give examples of the skills you claim you have.
IX. Basically approaching the employer as if you were a job-beggar,
hoping they will offer you any kind of a job, however humble.
X. Not sending a thank-you note right after the interview.
CHAPTER 4
Sixteen Tips About Interviewing
for a Job
Now, hunting for one of those ten million vacancies that are out there each
month, will inevitably involve interviewing, sooner or later. And the word
“interview” strikes terror into the heart of many—if not most—job-
hunters. Well, it needn’t. Interviews aren’t just “for a job.” There are many
types of interviews, so this topic shouldn’t be intimidating. I can think of
three kinds of interviews right off the bat, that arise during a job-hunt
(which I touched on in chapter 1). They are distinguished from each other
by what you are looking for, and more importantly, who you are talking to:
1. Interviews for fun or practice. Here you are talking with people
who are passionate about something that you are, too—be it
Hawaii, scrapbooks, travel, physical fitness, running, or whatever.
Oh, you would just call these “conversations”? Okay, then:
conversations.
2. Interviews for information, where you are talking with employees
who did or do the job you are exploring; or maybe you’re talking with
information specialists, or with experts in the industry that interests
you. Oh, you would just call these “conversations”? Okay, then:
conversations.
3. Interviews for a job, where you are talking with employers, and
most particularly with the person who actually has the power to
hire you for the job you want, rather than an HR interviewer whose
first job is to screen out as many candidates as possible. You want
information. Oh, you wouldn’t call these “conversations”? Well, I
would.
This chapter is going to be about this third kind of interview or
conversation: the one for a job.1 Keep in mind that the interview may not
be face-to-face: 63% of companies now report that they sometimes do
video interviews. Many via Skype. If you’re not familiar with Skype, it’s
never too late to start. Load it onto your computer, test it by calling a
friend. See how you come across; get honest feedback, not just
backstroking.
Also keep in mind that “interview” is usually plural. You are very likely
to have a whole series of interviews at one particular place, before they
decide to hire you (and you decide you really want to work there)—unless
it’s a small “mom and pop” kind of enterprise.
In any event, there are sixteen tips about the hiring conversation(s), at
one particular place, that you would do well to keep in mind:
Conversation Tip #1
There is no such thing as “employers.” I’m referring to the way job-
hunters use that word, to reach conclusions after just two interviews at two
different places. You conclude “Employers just won’t hire me or someone
with my background or someone with my handicap,” or nonsense like that.
My friend, you’re reaching way beyond the facts.
Fact: You interviewed with two employers (or six, or twelve) and they
wouldn’t hire you. Those two. Those six. Or those twelve. They hardly
speak for all twenty-two million active businesses that are out there.
Fact: “Employers” are individuals, as different from one another as
night and day. “Employers” span a wide range of attitudes, wildly different
ideas about how to hire, a wide range of ways to conduct hiring-
interviews, and as many different attitudes toward handicaps as you can
possibly think of. You cannot possibly predict the attitude of one employer
from the attitude of another. All generalizations about “employers”
(including those in this book) are just mental conveniences.
Fact: There are millions of separate, distinct, unrelated employers out
there with very different requirements for hiring. Unless you look dirty,
wild, and disreputable, and smell really bad, if you know what your talent
is, I guarantee some employer is looking for you. Even if you’re crazy,
there’s some employer crazier than you. You have to keep going. Some
employers out there do want you, no matter what the others think. Your
job is to find them.
Fact: There is a big difference between large employers (those with
hundreds or thousands of employees) and small employers (alternately
defined as those with 25 or fewer employees, or as those with 50 or fewer
employees, or—the most common definition—as those with 100 or fewer
employees). The chief difference is that large employers are harder to
reach, especially if the-person-who-has-the-power-to-hire-you-for-the-job-
you-want is in some deep inner chamber of that company, and the
company’s phone has a voice menu with eighteen impenetrable layers.
Don’t think your interviewing experience with small employers will
necessarily be at all like that.
Fact: There is a big difference between new companies or enterprises,
and those that have been around for some time, so far as hiring is
concerned. A recent study by the Bureau of Labor Statistics found that
newer companies with fewer than 100 employees, which were less than
five years old, created a net gain of 1.7 million jobs in 2016, while older
similar firms had a net loss of 505,000 jobs.2 So when hiring is tight, you
will want to concentrate on small firms, and newer small firms, at that.
Don’t think your interviewing experience with new companies will
necessarily be at all like the rejection you had with old ones.
Moral: Don’t get discouraged by your interview turn-downs. As I
mentioned in our first chapter, job expert Tom Jackson3 brilliantly
described the outcomes of job interviews at a whole bunch of places as
follows:
NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO
NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO YES YES
As Tom points out, every “NO” you get out of the way, gets you one
step closer to YES. (Or, preferably, two YESES.)
Conversation Tip #2
An interview (or series of interviews, there) should be prepared for,
before you ever go in. Naturally, you want to go into the interview(s) with
this employer curious to know more about you, but the employer is first of
all curious about what you know about them. Do a lot of research on them
before you go in. Why? Because organizations love to be loved. If you’ve
gone to the trouble of finding out as much as you can about them, before
you interview with them, they will be flattered and impressed, believe me.
So don’t skip this step. It may make the difference between your being
hired, or not being hired. Find out everything you can about them. Google
them. Go to their website if they have one, and read all their press releases,
plus everything there that is hidden under the heading “About Us.” If this
organization is local, and your town has a public library, ask your local
librarian for help in finding any news clippings or other information about
the place. And, finally, ask all your friends if they know anyone who ever
worked there, or works there still, so you can take them to lunch or tea or
Starbucks and find out any inside stories, before you approach the place.
(And, of course, maybe after you hear these stories you’ll decide not to
explore them any further. Better to know that now, than later.)
Conversation Tip #3
Honor agreements. If it was you who asked for the interview, not them,
remove their dread of this visit by specifying how much time you are
asking of them. You are the one in control of how long the interview lasts.
Specify some oddball period, like nineteen minutes (twenty sounds vague,
nineteen sounds precise—like you are really serious).
If they grant you the interview, keep to this time limit as though your
life depended on it. It builds trust. You mean what you say. You do what
you say you’re gonna do. If you have a cell phone with a timer that allows
you to select “Vibrate” without any sound, set its timer before you go in to
your appointment, to seventeen minutes (that leaves you two minutes to
wrap up). But don’t activate the timer yet. Wait for the time you actually
are about to enter their office for the interview, then activate it by tapping
it on or go. Keep the phone in a pocket or purse, where you can feel it. At
the seventeen-minute vibration warning, tap it off, and prepare to end the
interview by saying, “I said I would only take nineteen minutes of your
time, and I like to honor my agreements.” This will usually make a huge
impression on an employer!
Don’t obsess about time, during the interview; just stay quietly aware of
it, in the background of your mind, as you focus sharply on what the
employer is saying.
And at the end, don’t stay one minute longer than the nineteen minutes,
unless the employer begs you to—and I mean, begs, Begs, BEGS. A
courteous interviewer will say, “Oh, do you have to?” But don’t mistake
that for anything other than what it is: courtesy. Just graciously go.
Of course, if it was they who invited you in for the interview, then it is
up to them as to how long the interview lasts.
Conversation Tip #4
An interview for a job is a lot like dating. I remind you of what I said in
the previous chapter: The other human activity job-hunting most resembles
is dating, not marketing a used car. This conversation is two people
attempting to decide if you both want to “try going steady.” (Or maybe it’s
you plus six or nine others, depending on how many from the employer’s
team are sitting in, on the interview.) It’s got to be a two-way decision.
What the employer decides is critical, of course; but so is what you decide.
This interview is a data-collecting process for the employer. Whether
one person or a team is interviewing you, they are using the interview to
find out “Do we like you? Do we want you to work here? Do you have the
skills, knowledge, or experience that we really need? Do you have the
work-ethic that we are looking for? And, how will you fit in with our other
employees?”
All well and good. But, this interview is part of your data-collecting
process, too—the one you have been engaged in, or should have been
engaged in, throughout your whole job-hunt. You are sitting there, now,
with the employer or their team, and the question you are trying to find an
answer to, is: “Do I like you all? Do I want to work here, or not?”
You don’t begin an interview—as some so-called experts would have it
—by “marketing yourself.” Not now. Not in the beginning. Not until you
have gathered all the information you need to know about the place, and
are weighing the question “Do I want to work here?” and have concluded
“Yes,” or “I think so,” do you then turn your energy toward marketing
yourself.
Let me emphasize this: your side of the conversation (or conversations)
has two steps to it. First, gentle questioning about the place, then quiet
self-confident marketing of yourself, if—but only if—you’ve decided this
is the place for you. Because there are two steps, you’ll save yourself a lot
of grief if you realize the first interview, there, has only one main purpose:
to be invited back for a second interview.
Conversation Tip #5
Questions to expect from them, then questions you can ask. The
principal question, the first question, the most important question they are
likely to ask you is “Tell me about yourself.” How you answer that
question will determine your fate during the rest of the interview. So, here
are some key points to keep in mind about your answer to Tell me about
yourself:
a. With this question they are giving you a kind of test. They want to see
how you respond to an open-ended, unstructured situation, the kind of
unanticipated challenge that life (and a job) are continually presenting
to each of us.
b. Employers feel you have flunked the test if you respond with a
question instead of any answer. Every job-hunter’s favorite response
—Well, what do you want to know about me?—is every employer’s
least favorite. They interpret this to mean you have no idea what to
answer, and are stalling for time.
c. What employers are looking for here, is an answer to a somewhat
different question, than the one they posed. That unspoken real
question the employer has, is: What experience, skills, or knowledges
do you have, that are relevant to the job I am trying to fill? That’s
what you should try to answer here. Not your personal history, where
you grew up, your tastes, or hobbies. Employers want your work
history, and more particularly your work history as it relates to this
job that you are discussing with them.
d. Incidentally, it will help if you ask yourself, before going to the
interview(s), “What are the three most important competencies, for
this job?” If you haven’t a clue, then that’s what you want to ask
them, early on in the interview(s). Then, of course, during the
interview(s) you will want to emphasize and demonstrate that you
have those three—for the job that you are applying for.
e. But here we’re pondering your answer to “tell me about yourself.”
Employers expect you to have this answer at your fingertips, well-
summarized, well-rehearsed. (This is the famous “elevator speech”
job coaches are always recommending to job-hunters. In the length of
time it takes to ride an elevator up a tall building, you should be able
to give your entire answer to this question, rehearsed and rehearsed
beforehand, until you could say it in your sleep.)
Okay, what other questions may you expect the employer to ask you,
during your interview there? Books on interviewing, of which there are
many, often publish long lists of questions employers may ask you, along
with some timeworn, semiclever answers. Their lists include such
questions as:
Tell me about yourself. (As we have seen.)
What do you know about this company, business, or organization?
Why are you applying for this job?
How would you describe yourself?
What are your major strengths?
What is your greatest weakness?
What type of work do you like to do best?
What are your interests outside of work?
What accomplishment thus far in your life, gave you the greatest
satisfaction?
Why did you leave your last place of work? Or, Why were you fired
(if you were)?
Where do you see yourself five years from now?
What are your goals in life?
How much did you make at your last job?
And their lists go on. But really there are only five basic questions that
you need pay attention to. The people-who-have-the-power-to-hire-you are
most curious about your answers to these five, which they may ask directly
or try to find out without even mentioning the questions per se:
1. “Why are you here?” This means, “Why are you knocking on my
door, rather than someone else’s door?”
2. “What can you do for us?” This means, “If we were to hire you, will
you help me with the challenges I face? What are your skills, and how
much do you know about the subject or field that our organization is
in?”
3. “What kind of person are you?” This means, “Will you fit in? Do
you have the kind of personality that makes it easy for people to work
with you, and do you share the values that we have at this place?”
4. “What exactly distinguishes you from nineteen or nine hundred
other people who are applying for this job?” This means, “Do you
have better work habits than the others, do you show up earlier, stay
later, work more thoroughly, work faster, maintain higher standards,
go the extra mile, or…what?”
5. “Can I afford you?” This means, “If we decide we want you here,
how much will it take to get you, and are we willing and able to pay
that amount—governed, as we are, by our budget, and by our
inability to pay you as much as the person who would be next above
you, on our organizational chart?”
These are the principal questions that employers want to know the
answers to. This is the case, as I said, even if the interview begins and ends
with these five questions never once being mentioned explicitly by the
employer. Nonetheless, these questions are still floating beneath the
surface of the conversation, beneath all the things being discussed. So,
anything you can do, during the interview(s) there, to help the employer
with these five curiosities, will make you stand out, in the employer’s
mind.
Of course, it’s not just the employer who has questions. This is a two-
way conversation, remember? You have questions too. And—no surprise!
—they are the same questions as the employer’s (in only slightly different
form). Here is what you are probably quietly thinking about during your
half of the conversation:
1. “What does this job involve?” You want to understand exactly what
tasks will be asked of you, so that you can determine if these are the
kinds of tasks you would really like to do, and can do.
2. “What are the skills a top employee in this job would have to
have?” You want to find out if your skills match those that the
employer thinks a top employee in this job has to have, in order to do
this job well.
3. “Are these the kinds of people I would like to work with, or not?”
Do not ignore your intuition if it tells you that you would not be
comfortable working with these people! You want to know if they
have the kind of personalities that would enable you to accomplish
your best work. If these people aren’t it, keep looking!
4. “If we like each other, and we both want to work together, can I
persuade them there is something unique about me, that makes
me different from nineteen or nine hundred other people who are
applying for this job?” You need to think out, way ahead of time,
what does make you different from other people who can do the same
job. For example, if you are good at analyzing problems, how do you
do that? (1) Painstakingly? (2) Intuitively, in a flash? Or (3) By
consulting with greater authorities in the field? You see the point.
You are trying to put your finger on the “style” or “manner” in which
you do your work, that is distinctive and hopefully appealing, to this
employer, so that they choose you over other people they are
interviewing. (These are called your “self-management skills,” as we
shall see, a little further on.)
5. “Can I persuade them to hire me at the salary I need or want?”
This requires some knowledge on your part of how to conduct salary
negotiation. (Key things to know: it should always take place at the
end of the interviews there, and whoever mentions a salary figure
first, generally loses, in the negotiation.) That’s covered in the next
chapter.
You will probably want to ask questions one and two out loud. You
should observe quietly the answer to question three. You will be prepared
to make the case for questions four and five, when the appropriate time in
the interview arises.
Further questions you may want to ask:
What significant changes has this company gone through in the past
five years?
What values are sacred to this company?
What characterizes the most successful employees this company has?
What future changes do you see in the work here?
Who do you see as your allies, colleagues, or competitors in this
business?
How do you first raise these questions of yours, if you initiated the
interview? Well, you might begin by reporting just exactly how you’ve
been conducting your job-hunt, and what impressed you so much about
this organization during your research, that you decided to come in and
talk to them about a job. From there, and thereafter, you can fix your
attention on the five questions that are inevitably on the employer’s mind.
Incidentally, these five questions pop up (yet again), if you’re there to
talk not about a job that already exists, but rather, a job that you hope they
will create for you. In that case, these five questions change form only
slightly. They get changed into five statements, that you make to the
person-who-has-the-power-to-create-this-job.
1. You tell them what you like about this organization.
2. You tell them what sorts of needs you find intriguing in this field, in
general, and in this organization, in particular (by the way, unless you
first hear the word coming out of their mouth, don’t use the word
“problems,” as most employers prefer synonyms that sound gentler to
their ears, such as “challenges” or “needs”).
3. You tell them what skills seem to you to be necessary in order to
meet such needs, and you give them brief stories from your past
experience that demonstrate you have those very skills. Employers, in
these days of “behavioral interviews,” are not impressed with vague
statements like: “I’m good at….” They want concrete examples,
from your past experience, that prove you have the transferable skills,
special knowledges skills, or self-management skills, i.e., traits, that
you are claiming to have.
4. You tell them what is unique about the way you perform those skills.
Every prospective employer wants to know what makes you different
from nineteen or nine hundred other people who can do the same kind
of work as you. You have to know what that is. And then not merely
talk about it, but actually demonstrate it by the way you conduct your
side of the hiring-interview.
5. And you tell them how the hiring of you will not cost them, in the
long run. You need to be prepared to demonstrate that you will, in the
long run, bring in more money than the salary they pay you.
Emphasize this!
Conversation Tip #6
During the interview(s), determine to observe “the 50-50 rule.” Studies
have revealed that, in general, the people who get hired are those who mix
speaking and listening fifty-fifty in the interview(s). That is, half the time
they let the employer do the talking, half the time in the interview(s) they
do the talking. People who didn’t follow that mix, were the ones who
didn’t get hired, according to the study.4 My hunch as to the reason why
this is so, is that if you talk too much about yourself, you come across as
one who would ignore the needs of the organization; if you talk too little,
you come across as trying to hide something about your background.
Conversation Tip #7
In answering the employer’s questions, observe “the twenty-second to
two-minute rule.” Studies have revealed that when it is your turn to speak
or answer a question, you should plan not to speak any longer than two
minutes at a time, if you want to make the best impression.5 In fact, a good
answer to an employer’s question sometimes only takes twenty seconds to
give. (But not less than that, else you will be assumed to be “a grunter,”
lacking any communication skills.)
Conversation Tip #8
The employer is primarily concerned about risk. As I mentioned
earlier, employers hate risks. One risk stands above all the others: that they
may hire you, but you won’t work out. In which case, you are going to cost
the employer a lot of money. Put the search term “cost of a bad hire” into
your favorite Internet search engine (Google?), and see what it turns up.
As you can see, the cost of hiring the wrong person can cost the employer
one to five times the bad hire’s annual salary, or more.
So, during the interview, you may think you are sitting there, scared to
death, while the employer (individual or team) is sitting there, blasé and
confident. But in actual fact you and they may both be quite anxious.
The employer’s anxieties include any or all of the following:
a. That if hired, you won’t be able to do the job: that you lack the
necessary skills or experience, and the hiring-interview didn’t
uncover this.
b. That if hired, you won’t put in a full working day, more often than
not.
c. That if hired, you’ll take frequent sick days, on one pretext or
another.
d. That if hired, you’ll only stay around for a few weeks or at most a few
months, until you find a better job.
e. That if hired, it may take you too long to master the job, and thus it
will be too long before you turn a profit for that organization.
f. That you won’t get along with the other workers there, or that you
will develop a personality conflict with the boss.
g. That you will only do the minimum that you can get away with, rather
than the maximum that the boss was hoping for. Since every boss
these days is trying to keep their workforce smaller than it was before
2008, they are hoping for the maximum productivity from each new
hire post-2008.
h. That you will always have to be told what to do next, rather than
displaying initiative.
i. That you will turn out to have a disastrous character flaw not evident
in the interview, and ultimately reveal yourself to be either dishonest,
or irresponsible, a spreader of dissension at work, lazy, an embezzler,
a gossip, a sexual harasser, a drunk, a drug-user or substance abuser, a
liar, incompetent, or to put it bluntly, an employer’s worst nightmare.
j. (If this is a large organization, and your would-be boss is not the top
person there) that you will bring discredit upon them, and upon their
department/section/division, etc., for ever hiring you in the first place
—making them lose face, possibly also costing them a raise or a
promotion, from the boss upstairs.
In the end, what employers want to hire are people who can bring in
more money than they are paid. Every organization has two main
preoccupations for its day-by-day work: the problems—they generally
prefer “challenges”—they are facing, and what solutions to those
challenges their employees and management are coming up with.
Therefore, the main thing the employer is trying to figure out during the
hiring-interview with you, is: will you be part of the solution there, or
just another part of the problem.
In trying to allay their worries here, you should figure out prior to the
interview how a bad employee would “screw up,” in the position you are
discussing with the employer, individual or team—such things as come in
late, take too much time off, follow his or her own agenda instead of the
employer’s, etc. By your actions and words before, during, and after the
interview, plan to show the employer how much you are the very opposite:
you show up on time or ahead of time, during the interview you are
preoccupied with the employer’s agenda, not your own, and your sole goal
“is to increase the organization’s effectiveness, service, and bottom line.”
Conversation Tip #9
It’s the small things that are the killers, in a job interview. Okay,
you’re in the interview. You’re ready with your carefully rehearsed
summary of your experience, skills, and knowledges. But the employer
isn’t listening. Because, sitting across from you, they are noticing things
about you, that will kill the interview. And the job offer.
I think of this as losing to mosquitoes when you were prepared to fight
dragons. And losing in the first two minutes (ouch).
So what’s going on? Simply this.
The best interviewers operate intuitively on the principle that
microcosm reveals macrocosm. They believe that what you do in some
small “universe” reveals how you would and will act in a larger
“universe.”
They watch you carefully, during the small universe of the interview,
because they assume that each of your behaviors there reveals how you
would act in a larger “universe”—like: the job!
They scrutinize your past, as in your resume, for the same reason:
microcosm (your behavior in the past) reveals macrocosm (your likely
behavior in the future).
So let us look at what mosquitoes (as it were) can fly in, during the first
thirty seconds to two minutes of your interview so that the person-who-
has-the-power-to-hire-you starts muttering to themselves, “I sure hope we
have some other candidates besides this one”:
1. Your appearance and personal habits. Survey after survey has
revealed that you are much more likely to get the job if:
you have obviously freshly bathed—and, if a male, that you have
your face freshly shaved or your hair and beard freshly trimmed, have
clean fingernails, and are using a deodorant; if a female, that you have
not got tons of makeup on your face, have had your hair newly cut or
styled, in a current-day fashion, have clean or nicely manicured
fingernails that don’t stick out ten inches beyond your fingers, are
using deodorant, and are not wearing clothes so daring that they call a
lot of attention to themselves—unless that’s what the employer is
looking for (run).
you have on freshly laundered clothes, pants, or pantsuits with a sharp
crease, and shoes, not flip-flops, freshly polished; and
you have freshly brushed and flossed your teeth, so that you do not
have bad breath, do not dispense the odor of garlic, onion, stale
tobacco, or strong drink or mouthwash (a dead give-away) into the
enclosed office air; and equally
you are not wafting tons of aftershave cologne or overwhelming
perfume fifteen feet ahead of you, when you enter the room.
Employers have become super-sensitive these days to the fact that
many employees (and employers!) are allergic to certain scents.
you do not have a whole lot of tattoos clearly visible in the interview.
Now, to be sure, not all tattoos are offensive. Tattoos are everywhere
these days: on movie stars, singers, dancers, athletes, and everyday
people. Some body art is tiny and discrete. In which case this doesn’t
apply to you. But if you have tattoos that are gang-related, or
otherwise off-putting, and you’re afraid a particular employer that
you want very much to work for is going to think badly of you upon
seeing them, weigh carefully if you value the tattoo more than a job
(there). If you do decide to remove it, ahead of the interview, a man
named Mark Drevno has compiled a unique “Tattoo Removal
Directory” for the entire U.S., which you can search by city or
location. It is found on a site for ex-offenders, but so what?—if you
have a tattoo you want removed, you may find this directory
immensely helpful. It is found at the site: www.​jailstojobs.​org.
2. Nervous mannerisms. It is a turnoff for many employers if:
you continually avoid eye contact with the employer (in fact, this is a
big, big no-no), or
you give a limp handshake, or
you slouch in your chair, or endlessly fidget with your hands, or crack
your knuckles, or constantly play with your hair during the interview.
3. Lack of self-confidence. It is a turnoff for many employers if:
you are speaking so softly you cannot be heard, or so loudly you can
be heard two rooms away, or
you are giving answers in an extremely hesitant fashion, or
you are giving only one-word answers (no, yes, maybe, not yet, I think
so) to all the employer’s questions, or
you are constantly interrupting the employer, or
you are downplaying your achievements or abilities, or are
continuously being self-critical in comments you make about yourself
during the interview.
4. The consideration you show to other people. It is a turnoff for
many employers if:
you show a lack of courtesy to the receptionist, secretary, and (if at
lunch) to the waiter or waitress, or
you display extreme criticalness toward your previous employers and
places of work, or
you drink strong stuff during the interview process. Ordering a drink
if the employer takes you to lunch has become a complete no-no, as it
raises the question in the employer’s mind, “Do they normally stop
with one, or do they normally keep on going?” Don’t…do…it!…even
if they do; or
you forget to thank the interviewer as you’re leaving, or forget to
send a thank-you note afterward, that same day. Says one human
resources expert: “A prompt, brief…letter thanking me for my time
along with a (brief!) synopsis of his/her unique qualities
communicates to me that this person is an assertive, motivated,
customer-service-oriented salesperson who utilizes technology and
knows the rules of the ‘game.’ These are qualities I am looking
for….At the moment I receive approximately one such letter…for
every fifteen candidates interviewed.”
5. Your values. It is a complete turnoff for many employers, if they see
in you:
any sign of arrogance or excessive aggressiveness; any sign of
tardiness or failure to keep appointments and commitments on time,
including these interviews; or
any sign of laziness or lack of motivation; or
any sign of constant complaining or blaming things on others; or
any signs of dishonesty or lying—especially on your resume or
during the interviews; or
any signs of irresponsibility or tendency to goof off; or
any sign of not following instructions or obeying rules; or
any sign of a lack of enthusiasm for this organization and what it is
trying to do; or
any sign of instability, inappropriate response, and the like; or
the other ways in which you evidence your values, such as: what
things impress you or don’t impress you in their office; or what you
are willing to sacrifice in order to get this job and what you are not
willing to sacrifice in order to get this job; or your enthusiasm for
work; or the carefulness with which you did or didn’t research this
company before you came in; and blah, blah, blah.
Incidentally, many an employer will watch to see if you smoke, either
in the office or at lunch. In a race between two equally qualified
people, the nonsmoker will win out over the smoker 94% of the time,
according to a study done by a professor of business at Seattle
University. Sorry to report this, but take it seriously!
So, there you have it: these are the metaphorical mosquitoes that can
kill you, when you’re on the watch for dragons, during the hiring-
interviews.
One favor I ask of you: do not write me, telling me how picayune or
asinine some of this is. I know that. I’m not reporting the world as it
should be, and certainly not as I would like it to be. I’m only reporting
what study after study has revealed about the world as it is. And how it
affects your chances of getting hired.
But here’s the good news, when all is said and done: you can kill all
these mosquitoes. Yes, you control and can change every one of these
factors. Go back and read the list and see!
Conversation Tip #10
Be aware of the skills most employers are looking for, these days,
regardless of the position you are seeking.
They are looking for employees:
who are punctual, arriving at work on time or better yet, early; who
stay until quitting time, or even leave late;
who are dependable;
who have a good attitude;
who have drive, energy, and enthusiasm;
who want more than a paycheck;
who are self-disciplined, well-organized, highly motivated, and good
at managing their time;
who can handle people well;
who can use language effectively;
who can work on a computer;
who are committed to teamwork;
who are flexible, and can respond to novel situations, or adapt when
circumstances at work change;
who are trainable, and love to learn;
who are project-oriented, and goal-oriented;
who have creativity and are good at problem solving;
who have integrity;
who are loyal to the organization; and
who are able to identify opportunities, markets, and coming trends.
So, plan on claiming all of these that you legitimately can, and prior to
the interview, sit down, make a list, and jot down some experience you
have had, for each, that proves you have that skill.
Conversation Tip #11
Try to think of some way to bring evidence of your skills, to the
hiring-interview. For example, if you are an artist, a craftsperson, or
anyone who produces a product, try to bring a sample of what you have
made or produced—in scrapbook or portfolio form, on a flashdrive, on
YouTube, in photos, or if you are a programmer, examples of your code.
And so on.
Conversation Tip #12
Do not bad-mouth your previous employer(s) during the interview,
even if they were terrible people. Employers sometimes feel as though
they are a fraternity or sorority. During the interview you want to come
across as one who displays courtesy toward all members of that fraternity
or sorority. Bad-mouthing a previous employer only makes this employer
who is interviewing you, worry about what you would say about them,
after they hire you.
(I learned this in my own experience. I once spoke graciously about a
previous employer during a job-interview. Unbeknownst to me, the
interviewer already knew that my previous employer had badly mistreated
me. He therefore thought very highly of me because I didn’t bad-mouth the
guy. In fact, he never forgot this incident; talked about it for years
afterward.)
Plan on saying something nice about any previous employer, or if you
are pretty sure that the fact you and they didn’t get along will surely come
out, then try to nullify this ahead of time, by saying something simple like,
“I usually get along with everybody; but for some reason, my past
employer and I just didn’t get along. Don’t know why. It’s never happened
to me before. Hope it never happens again.”
Conversation Tip #13
Throughout the interview, keep in mind: employers don’t really care
about your past; they only ask about it, in order to try to predict your
future (behavior) with them, if they decide to hire you. They have fears,
of course; don’t we all?
Legally, U.S. employers may only ask you questions that are related to
the requirements and expectations of the job. They cannot ask about such
things as your creed, religion, race, age, sexual orientation, or marital
status. But, any other questions about your past are fair game. And they
will ask them, if they know what they’re doing.
Therefore, during the hiring-interview, before you answer any question
the employer asks you about your past, you should pause to think, “What
fear about the future caused them to ask this question about my past?” and
then address that fear, subtly or directly.
Here are some examples:
Click here to download a PDF of charts included in Conversation Tip #13.
Conversation Tip #14
As the interview proceeds, you want to quietly notice the time frame of
the questions the employer is asking, because it’s a way of measuring
how the interview is going. If it’s going favorably for you, the time frame
of the employer’s questions will often move—however slowly—through
the following stages.
1. Distant past: e.g., “Where did you attend high school?”
2. Immediate past: e.g., “Tell me about your most recent job.”
3. Present: e.g., “What kind of a job are you looking for?”
4. Immediate future: e.g., “Would you be able to come back for another
interview next week?”
5. Distant future: e.g., “Where would you like to be five years from
now?”
Well, you get the point. The more the time frame of the interviewer’s
questions moves from the past to the future, the more favorably you may
assume the interview is going for you. On the other hand, if the
interviewer’s questions stay firmly in the past, the outlook is not so good.
Ah well, ya can’t win them all!
When the time frame of the interviewer’s questions moves firmly into
the future, then is the time for you to get more specific about the job in
question. Experts say it is essential for you to ask, at that point, these kinds
of questions, if you don’t already know the answers:
What is the job, specifically, that I am being considered for?
If I were hired, what duties would I be performing?
What would you be hiring me to accomplish?
What responsibilities would I have?
Would I be working with a team, or group?
To whom would I report? (Remember, the communication skills and
personal warmth of an employee’s supervisor are often crucial in
determining the employee’s tenure and performance. In fact, recent
research shows that the quality of the supervisor may be more
important than the experience and individual attributes of the
workers themselves.)
Whose responsibility is it to see that I get the training I need, here, to
get up to speed?
How would I be evaluated, how often, and by whom?
What were the strengths and weaknesses of previous people in this
position?
May I meet the persons I would be working with and for (if it isn’t
you)?
(Optional) If you don’t mind my asking, I’m curious as to why you
yourself decided to work at this organization?
(Optional) What do you wish you had known about this company
before you started here?
Conversation Tip #15
Before you leave the (final) interview there, assuming you have
decided that you like them and maybe they like you, there are five
questions you should always ask:
1. “Can you offer me this job?” I know this seems stupid, but it is
astonishing (at least to me) how many job-hunters have secured a job
simply by being bold enough to ask for it, at the end of the (final)
interview, in language they feel comfortable with. I don’t know why
this is. I only know that it is. Anyway, if after hearing all about this
job at this place, you decide you’d really like to have it, you must ask
for it. The worst thing the employer can say is “No,” or “We need
some time to think about all the interviews we’re conducting.”
2. “When may I expect to hear from you?” If the employer says, “We
need some time to think about this,” or “We will be calling you for
another interview,” you don’t want to leave this as a vague good
intention on the employer’s part. You want to nail it down.
3. “Might I ask what would be the latest I can expect to hear from
you?” The employer has probably given you their best guess, in
answer to your previous question. Now you want to know: what is the
worst-case scenario? Incidentally, when I was job-hunting once, and I
asked my interviewer when was the latest I might expect to hear from
him, he replied, “Never!” I thought he had a great sense of humor.
Turned out he was dead serious.
4. “May I contact you after that date, if for any reason you haven’t
gotten back to me by that time?” Some employers resent this
question. You’ll know that is the case if they snap at you. But most
employers appreciate your offering them what is in essence a safety
net. They know they can get busy, become overwhelmed with other
things, forget their promise to you. It’s reassuring, in such a case, for
you to offer to rescue them.
5. (Optional) “Can you think of anyone else who might be interested
in my skills and experience?” This question is invoked only if they
replied “No,” to your first question, above.
Jot down any answers they give you, then stand up, thank them
sincerely for their time, give a firm handshake, and leave.
In the following days, rigorously keep to all that you said, and don’t
contact them except with that mandatory thank-you note, until after the
latest deadline you two agreed upon, in answer to question #4. If you do
have to contact them after that date, and if they tell you things are still up
in the air, you should gently ask questions #2, #3, and #4, all over again.
Conversation Tip #16
Every expert on interviewing will tell you two things:
1. Thank-you notes must be sent after every interview, by every job-
hunter; and
2. Most job-hunters ignore this advice.
Indeed, it is safe to say that it is the most overlooked step in the entire
job-hunting process.
If you want to stand out from the others applying for the same job, send
thank-you notes—to everyone you met there, that day. Ask if they have a
business card, and if not, ask them to write out their name and address. Do
this with secretaries (who often hold the keys to the kingdom) as well as
with your interviewer.
If you need any additional encouragement to send thank-you letters
(besides the fact that it may get you the job), here are six more reasons for
sending a thank-you note, especially to the one who interviewed you:
First, you were presenting yourself as one who has good skills with
people. Your actions with respect to the job-interview must back this claim
up. Sending a thank-you note does that. The employer can see you are
good with people; you remembered to thank them.
Second, it helps the employer recall who you are. Very helpful if
they’ve seen a dozen people that day.
Third, if a committee will be involved in the hiring process, but only
one member was at the first interview, the man or woman who first
interviewed you has something to show the others on the committee.
Fourth, if the interview went rather well, and the employer seemed to
show an interest in further talks, the thank-you note can reiterate your
interest in further talks.
Fifth, the thank-you note gives you an opportunity to correct any wrong
impression you left behind. You can add anything you forgot to tell them,
that you want them to know. And from among all the things you two
discussed, you can underline the two or three points that you most want to
stand out in their minds.
Lastly, if the interview did not go well, or you lost all interest in
working there, and this thank-you note is sort of “goodbye, and thanks,”
keep in mind that they may hear of openings elsewhere, that would be of
interest to you. In the thank-you note, you can mention this, and ask them
to please let you know if they hear of anything anywhere. If this was a
kind man or woman who interviewed you, they may send you additional
leads.
Conclusion
There is no magic in job-hunting. No techniques work all the time. I hear
regularly from job-hunters who report that they paid attention to all the tips
I have mentioned in this chapter and the book, and are quite skilled at
securing interviews—but they never get hired. And they want to know
what they’re doing wrong.
Sometimes it is because there are levels of screening, some within your
sight, some beyond your sight. And everything may appear to be going
well, on the levels you can see; but not necessarily on the levels you can’t
see.
Still puzzled about why you’re not getting hired? Sometimes,
unfortunately, the answer is: “You’re not doing anything wrong.” I don’t
know how often this happens, but I know it does happen: namely, some
employers play despicable tricks on job-hunters, whereby they invite you
in for an interview despite the fact that they have already hired someone
for the position in question, and they know from the beginning that they
have absolutely no intention of hiring you—not in a million years!
You are cheered, of course, by the ease with which you get these
interviews. But unbeknownst to you, the manager who is interviewing you
(we’ll say it’s a he) has a personal friend he already agreed to give the job
to. Only one small problem remains: the state or the federal government
gives funds to this organization, and has mandated that this position be
opened to all. So this manager must pretend to interview ten candidates,
including his favorite, as though the job opening were still available. But,
he intended, from the beginning, to reject the other nine and give the job to
his favorite. You were selected for the honor of being among those nine
rejectees.
You will, of course, be baffled as to why you got turned down. Trouble
is, you will never know.
On the other hand, maybe no games are being played. You are getting
rejected, at place after place, because there is something really wrong with
the way you are coming across, during these hiring-interviews.
Employers will rarely ever tell you this. You will never hear them say
something like, “You came across as just too cocky and arrogant during
the interview.” You will almost always be left in the dark as to what it is
you’re doing wrong.
If you feel daring, there is a strategy you can try. If you’ve been
interviewed by a whole bunch of employers, whoever was the friendliest
of them all may want to help you. I said may.
You can always try phoning, reminding them of who you are, and then
asking the following question—deliberately kept generalized, vague,
unrelated to just that place, and above all, future-directed. Something like:
“I’d appreciate some advice. I’ve been on several interviews at several
different places now. From what you’ve seen, is there something about me
in an interview, that you think might be causing me not to get hired at
those places? If so, I’d really appreciate your giving me some pointers so I
can do better in my future hiring-interviews.”
Most of the time they’ll duck. Their legal advisor, if they have one, will
certainly advise against it. First of all, they’re afraid of lawsuits. Second,
they don’t know how you will use what they might have to say. (Said an
old military veteran to me one day, “I used to think it was my duty to tell
everyone the truth. Now I only give it to those who can use it.”)
But occasionally you will run into a compassionate and kind employer
who is willing to risk giving you the truth, because they think you will use
it wisely. If so, thank them from the bottom of your heart, no matter how
painful their feedback is. Such advice, seriously heeded, can bring about
just the changes in your interviewing strategy that you most need, in order
to win during interviews in the future.
In the absence of any such help from employers who interviewed you,
you might want to get a good business friend of yours to role-play a mock
hiring-interview with you, in case they immediately see something
glaringly wrong with how you’re “coming across.”
When all else fails, I would recommend you go to a career coach who
charges by the hour, and put yourself in their tender knowledgeable hands.
Role-play an interview with them, and take their advice seriously (you’ve
just paid for it, after all).
In interviewing, as elsewhere in your job-hunt, the secret is to find out
anything that is within your control, even if it’s only 2%; and change it!
And if you do get the job, make one resolution to yourself right there, on
the spot: plan to keep track of your accomplishments at this new job, on a
weekly basis—jotting them down, every weekend, in your own private
log. Career experts recommend you do this without fail. You can then
summarize these accomplishments annually on a one-page sheet, for your
boss’s eyes, when the question of a raise or promotion comes up.6
THE TEN COMMANDMENTS FOR JOB-
INTERVIEWS
Whereby Your Chances of Finding a Job Are Vastly Increased
I. Go after new, small organizations with fewer than fifty
employees, at first, since they create nearly two-thirds of all new
jobs. Only if you turn up nothing should you broaden the search
to slightly larger organizations, those with fifty employees, then
if that doesn’t prove to be a successful strategy, organizations
with one hundred employees.
II. Hunt for places to interview using the aid of, say, eighty friends
and acquaintances—because a job-hunt requires eighty pairs of
eyes and ears. But first do homework on yourself so you can tell
them exactly what you are looking for. (This is discussed further
in chapter 8.)
III. As for who to interview, once you’ve identified a place that
interests you, you really need to find out who has the power to
hire you there, for the position you want, and use “bridge-
people” (those who know you and also know them) to get an
introduction to that person. Employ LinkedIn.​com and similar,
to find these people. (See chapter 9.)
IV. Do thorough homework on an organization before going there,
using Informational Interviews (see chapter 9) plus the Internet
to find out as much about them as you possibly can. If you have
a public library in town, ask there too.
V. Then prepare for the interview with your own agenda, your own
questions and curiosities about whether or not this job fits you.
This will always impress employers.
VI. If you initiated the appointment, ask for just nineteen minutes of
their time; and keep to your word strictly. Watch your watch.
VII. When answering a question of theirs, talk only between twenty
seconds and two minutes, at any one time. Try to be succinct.
Don’t keep rattling on, out of nervousness.
VIII. Basically approach them not as a “job-beggar” but humbly as a
resource person, able to produce better work for that
organization than any of the people who worked in that position,
previously.
IX. At the end of the interviewing process, ask for the job: “Given
all that we have discussed, can you offer me this job?” Salary
negotiation should only happen when they have definitely said
they want you; prior to that, it’s pointless.
X. Always write a thank-you note the same evening as the
interview, and mail it at the latest by early next morning. This in
addition to emailing it. The tendency these days is for job-
hunters to only email a thank-you note. You will stand out from
the others if you do both.
1. The other two are discussed at the end of chapter 10 (this page–this page).
2. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Table 1-A-F, “Annual Gross
Job Gains and Gross Job Losses by Age and Average Size of Firm,” December
2016.
3. Author of The Perfect Resume: Today’s Ultimate Job Search Tool, 2004.
4. This one was done by a researcher at Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
whose name has now been lost in the mists of time.
5. This one was conducted by my friend and colleague, Daniel Porot, of Geneva,
Switzerland.
6. For additional reading and guidance: What Color Is Your Parachute? Guide to
Rethinking Interviews, a little over $10 online or at bookstores.
 
Students spend four or more years
Learning how to dig data out of the library
And other sources.
But it rarely occurs to them
That they should also apply
Some of the same newfound research skill
To their own benefit—
To looking up information on companies,
Types of professions, sections of the country,
That might interest them.
—Professor Albert Shapiro, Ohio State University (d. 1985)
CHAPTER 5
The Six Secrets of Salary
Negotiation
© ScienceCartoonsPlus.​com
Salary.
It must be discussed, before you finally agree to take the job. Once
they’ve offered it to you.
I hope you know that. I remember talking to a breathless high school
graduate, who was elated at having just landed her first job. “How much
are they going to pay you?” I asked. She looked startled. “I don’t know,”
she said, “I never asked. I just assume they will pay me a fair wage.” Boy!
Did she get a rude awakening when she received her first paycheck. It was
so miserably low, she couldn’t believe her eyes. And thus did she learn,
painfully, what you must learn too: Before accepting a job offer, always
ask about salary.
Indeed, ask and then negotiate.
It’s the “negotiate” that throws fear into our hearts. So many of us feel
ill prepared to do that.
Well, set your mind at ease; it’s not all that difficult.
While whole books can be—and have been—written on this subject,
there are basically just six secrets to keep in mind.
The First Secret of Salary Negotiation
Never Discuss Salary Until the End of the Whole Interviewing Process
at That Organization, When (and If) They Have Definitely Said They
Want You
“The end of the interviewing process” is difficult to define. It’s the point at
which the employer says, or thinks, “We’ve got to get this person!” That
may be at the end of the first (and therefore the last) interview; or it may
be at the end of a whole series of interviews, often with different people
within the same company or organization, or with a whole bunch of them
all at once.
But assuming things are going favorably for you, whether after the first,
or second, or third, or fourth interview, if you like them and they
increasingly like you, a job offer will be made. Then, and only then, is it
time to deal with the question that is inevitably on any employer’s mind:
how much is this person going to cost me? And the question that is on your
mind: how much does this job pay?
If the employer raises the salary question earlier, say, near the beginning
of the interview, asking (innocently), “What kind of salary are you looking
for?” you should have three responses ready—at your fingertips.
Response #1: If the employer seems like a kindly man or woman, your
best and most tactful reply might be: “Until you’ve decided you definitely
want me, and I’ve decided I definitely could help you with your tasks or
projects here, I feel any discussion of salary is premature.”
That will work, in most cases. There are instances, however, where that
doesn’t work. Then you need:
Response #2: You may be face-to-face with an employer who demands
within the first two minutes of the interview to know what salary you are
looking for. That is not good, especially since 2008, as some employers
can afford to be really picky, since—in their minds—there is a plentiful
bunch of job-hunters to choose from. So, here, you may need a backup
response, such as: “I’ll gladly answer that, but could you first help me
understand what this job involves?”
That is a good response, in most cases. But what if it doesn’t work?
Then you’ll need to fall back on:
Response #3: The employer with rising voice says, “Come, come, don’t
play games with me. I want to know what salary you’re looking for.”
Okay, that’s that. You have to come clean. But you don’t have to mention
a single figure; instead you can answer in terms of a range. For example,
“I’m looking for a salary in the range of $35,000 to $45,000 a year.”
If that still doesn’t satisfy them, then clearly you are being interviewed
by an employer who has no range in mind. Their beginning figure is their
ending figure. No negotiation is possible.1 This happens, when it does,
because many employers since 2008 are making salary their major if not
sole criterion for deciding who to hire, and who not to hire. It’s an old
game: among two equally qualified candidates, the one who is willing
to work for the least pay, wins. And that is that!
If you run into this situation, you may decide this isn’t the kind of place
you want to work at, for if they’re inflexible in this, what else will they be
inflexible about, once you take the job? You’ve been warned. Microcosm
equals macrocosm.
On the other hand, if you’re flat broke and you need this job—any job—
desperately, you will have no choice but to give in. Ask what salary they
have in mind, and make your decision. (Of course you can always try
postponing your decision a day or so, by saying, “I need a little time, to
think about this.”)
However, all the foregoing is merely the worst-case scenario. Usually,
things won’t go this badly, where you feel so powerless.
In most interviews these days, the employer, alone or in a group, will be
willing to save salary negotiation until they’ve finally decided they want
you (and you’ve decided you want them). And at that point, the salary will
be negotiable. I’ll explain why in the next Secret.
For now, let me hammer home this first Secret: it is in your best interest
to not discuss salary until all of the following conditions have been
fulfilled:
Not until they’ve gotten to know you, at your best, so they can see
how you stand out above the other applicants, and therefore how
you’re worth more than they would pay them.
Not until you’ve gotten to know them, as completely as you can, so
you can tell if this really is a place where you want to work.
Not until you’ve found out exactly what the job entails.
Not until they’ve had a chance to find out how well you match their
job requirements.
Not until you’re in the final interview at that place, for that job.
Not until you’ve decided, “I really would like to work here.”
Not until they’ve conveyed to you their feelings, such as: “Well that’s
good, because we want you.” Or, better yet:
Not until they’ve conveyed the feeling, “We’ve got to have you.”
If you’d prefer this be put in the form of a diagram, here it is:
WHEN TO NEGOTIATE SALARY
Reprinted by permission of Paul Hellman, author of Ready, Aim, You’re Hired! and
president of Express Potential (www.​expresspotential.​com). All rights reserved.
Click here to download a PDF of the When to Negotiate Salary Diagram.
It all boils down to this: if you really shine during the hiring-interview,
they may—at the end—offer you a higher salary than they originally had
in mind when the interview started. And this is particularly the case when
the interview has gone so well, that they’re now determined to obtain you.
The Second Secret of Salary Negotiation
The Purpose of Salary Negotiation Is to Uncover the Most That an
Employer Is Willing to Pay to Get You
Negotiation. There’s the word that strikes terror into the hearts of most
job-hunters or career-changers. Why do we have to negotiate?
Simple. It would never be necessary if every employer in every hiring-
interview were to mention, right from the start, the top figure they are
willing to pay for that position. A few employers do. And that’s the end of
any salary negotiation. But most employers don’t.
They know, from the beginning of the interview, the top figure they’re
willing to pay for this position under discussion. But. But. They’re hoping
they’ll be able to get you for less. So they start the bidding (for that is
what it is) lower than they’re ultimately willing to go.
And this creates a range.
A range between the lowest they’re hoping to pay, vs. the highest they
can afford to pay. And that range is what the negotiation is all about.
For example, if the employer can afford to pay you $30 an hour, but
wants to try to get you for $18 an hour, the range is $18–$30.
You have every right to try to negotiate the highest salary that employer
is willing to pay you, within that range.
Nothing’s wrong with the goals of either of you. The employer’s goal is
to save money, if possible. Your goal is to bring home to your own
household the most money that you can, for the work you will be doing.
The Third Secret of Salary Negotiation
During Salary Discussion, Never Be the First One to Mention a Salary
Figure
Where salary negotiation has been successfully kept offstage for much of
the interview process, when it finally does come up, you want the
employer to be the first one to mention a figure, if you possibly can.
Why? Nobody knows. But it has been observed over the years that
where the goals are opposite, as in this case—you are trying to get the
employer to pay the most they can, and the employer is trying to pay the
least they can—whoever mentions a salary figure first, generally loses.
You can speculate from now until the cows come home, as to why this is
so. There are a dozen theories. All we really know for sure is that it is true.
Inexperienced employer/interviewers often don’t know this strange rule.
But experienced ones are very aware of it. That’s why they will try to get
you to mention a figure first, by asking you some innocent-sounding
question, like: “What kind of salary are you looking for?”
Well, how kind of them to ask me what I want—you may be thinking.
No, no, no. Kindness has nothing to do with it. They are hoping you will
be the first to mention a figure, because they’ve learned this lesson from
ten thousand interviews in the past.
Accordingly, if they ask you to be the first to name a figure, the simple
countermove you should have at the ready, is: “Well, you created this
position, so you must have some figure in mind, and I’d be interested in
first hearing what that figure is.”
The Fourth Secret of Salary Negotiation
Before You Go to the Interview, Do Some Careful Research on
Typical Salaries for Your Field and in That Organization
As I said, salary negotiation is required anytime the employer does not
open the discussion of salary by naming the top figure they have in mind,
but starts instead with a lower figure.
Okay, so here is the $64,000 question: how do you tell whether the
figure the employer first offers you is only their starting bid, or is their
final offer? The answer is: by doing some research on the field and that
organization, before you ever go in for an interview.
Oh, come on! I can hear you say. Isn’t this more trouble than it’s worth?
No, it’s not. If you want to win the salary negotiation. There is a financial
penalty exacted from those who are too lazy, or in too much of a hurry, to
go gather this information. In plain language: if you don’t do this research,
it’ll cost ya!
Let’s say it takes you from one to three days to run down this sort of
information on the three or four organizations that interest you the most.
And let us say that because you’ve done this research, when you finally
come to the end of the final interview for a job there, you are able to ask
for and obtain a salary that is—oh, let’s say—$15,000 a year higher than
you would otherwise have gotten. (That’s not unrealistic.)
In the next three years, then, you will be earning $45,000 extra because
of your salary research. Not bad pay, for just one to three days’ work! And
it can be even more.
It doesn’t always happen; but I know many job-hunters and career-
changers to whom it has. It’s certainly worth a shot.
Okay, then, how do you do this research? Well, there are two ways to
go: online, and off. Let’s look at each, in turn.
Salary Research Online
If you have access to the Internet—at home or at your library or at an
Internet café2—and you want to research salaries for particular
geographical regions, positions, occupations, or industries, or even
(sometimes) organizations, here are some free sites that may give you just
what you’re looking for:
http://jobstar.​org/​tools/​salary/​index.​php: This site is a treasure
trove. It links to three hundred different sites that maintain salary
lists, and joy, joy, it is kept updated. It’s one of the largest and most
complete lists of salary reviews on the Web, maintained by a genius
named Mary Ellen Mort. This is a treasure.
www.​salary.​com: The most visited of all the salary-specific job-sites,
with a wide variety of information about salaries. It was started by
Kent Plunkett, and acquired by Kenexa Corporation in August 2010.
It has expanded a lot, over the years. Roll over the green navigation
bar at the top to see all its resources.
www.​bls.​gov/​ooh: The Bureau of Labor Statistics’ survey of salaries
in individual occupations, from the Occupational Outlook Handbook
2016–2017. It lists jobs that are highest paying, and/or jobs that are
the fastest growing, and/or jobs that have the highest number of
openings.
www.​bls.​gov/​oes/​oes_emp.​htm: The Bureau of Labor Statistics’
survey of salaries in individual industries (it’s a companion piece to
the Handbook). Over a period of three years, it surveys 1.2 million
establishments to get their figures.
www.​MyPlan.​com: This site has a list of the highest-paying jobs in
America for those without a college degree (under Careers, click on
Top Ten Lists).
www.​salaryexpert.​com: When you need a salary expert, it makes
sense to go to “the Salary Expert.” Lots of stuff on the subject of
salaries here, including a free “Salary Report” for hundreds of job-
titles, varying by area, skill level, and experience. It also has some
salary calculators. I find the site a little complicated to navigate, but
maybe that’s just me.
If you “strike out” on all the above sites, then you’re going to have to
get a little more clever, and work a little harder, and pound the pavement,
as I shall describe next.
Salary Research off the Internet
Okay, so how do you do salary research offline? Well, there’s a simple
rule: generally speaking, abandon books, and go talk to people.
Use books and libraries only as a second, or last, resort. You can get
much more complete and up-to-date information from people who are
doing the kind of job you’re interested in, maybe at another company or
organization than the one(s) you’re interested in.
If you don’t know where to find them, talk to people at a nearby
university or college who train such people, whatever their department
may be. Teachers and professors will usually know what their graduates
are making. Also you can go visit actual workplaces.
Let’s look at some concrete examples:
First Example: A fast food place. You may not need to do any salary
research. They pay what they pay. You can walk in, ask for a job
application, and interview with the hiring manager. He or she will usually
tell you the pay, outright. It’s usually set in concrete. But at least it’s easy
to discover what the pay is. (Incidentally, filling out an application, or
even having an interview there, doesn’t mean you have to take that job—
but you probably already know that. Just say, “I need to go home and
think about this.” You can decline any offer from any place. That’s what
makes this approach harmless.)
Second Example: A construction company. This is typical of a place
where you can’t discover what the pay is, right off the bat. If you’re
actually going to try to get work at that construction company but you
want to research salaries before you go for an interview, the best way to do
this research is to go visit a different construction company in the same
town or geographical area—one that isn’t of much interest to you—and
ask what people make there. Or, if you don’t know who to talk to there, fill
out one of their applications, and talk to the hiring person about what kinds
of jobs they have (or might have in the future)—at which time prospective
wages is a legitimate subject of inquiry. Then, having done this research
on a place you don’t care about, go back to the place that really interests
you, and apply. You still don’t know exactly what they pay, but you do
know what their competitor pays—which will usually be close to what
you’re trying to find out.
Third Example: A one-person office (besides the boss, obviously),
working, say, as an administrative assistant. Here you can often find useful
salary information by perusing the Help Wanted ads in the local
newspaper for a week or two, assuming you still have a local paper! Most
of the ads won’t mention a salary figure, but a few may. Among those that
do, note what the lowest salary offering is, and what the highest is, and see
if the ad reveals any reasons for the difference. It’s interesting how much
you can learn about administrative assistants’ salaries, with this approach.
I know, because I was an administrative assistant myself, once upon a
time.
There’s a lot you can find out by talking to people. But another way to
do salary research—if you’re out of work and have time on your hands—is
to find a Temporary Work Agency that places different kinds of workers,
and let yourself be farmed out to various organizations: the more, the
merrier. It’s relatively easy to do salary research when you’re inside a
place. (Study what that place pays the agency, not what the agency pays
you after they’ve taken their “cut.”) If you’re working temporarily at a
place where the other workers really like you, you’ll be able to ask
questions about a lot of things there, including salary.
The Fifth Secret of Salary Negotiation
Research the Range That the Employer Likely Has in Mind, and Then
Define an Interrelated Range for Yourself, Relative to the Employer’s
Range
Okay, I admit this is a bit sophisticated, and you may not have the stomach
to do this much research. But you ought to at least know how this works.
Just in case.
It begins by defining your goal. What you want, in your research, is not
just one salary figure. As you may recall, you want a range: a range
defined by what’s the least the employer may offer you, and what’s the
most the employer may be willing to pay to get you. In any organization
that has more than five employees, that range is comparatively easy to
figure out. It will be less than what the person who would be above you
makes, and more than what the person who would be below you makes.
Examples:
One teensy-tiny little problem here: how do you find out the salary of
those who would be above and below you? Well, first you have to find out
their names or the names of their positions.
If it is a small organization you are going after—one with fifty or fewer
employees—finding out this information should be easy. Any employee
who works there is likely to know the answer, and you can usually get in
touch with one of those employees, or even an ex-employee, through your
own personal “bridge-people”—people who know you and also know
them. Since up to two-thirds of all new jobs are created by small
companies of this size, that’s the kind of organization you are likely to be
researching, anyway.
On the other hand, if you are going after a larger organization, then you
fall back on a familiar life preserver, namely, every person you know
(family, friend, relative, business, or spiritual acquaintance) and ask them
who they know that might know the company in question, and therefore,
the information you seek. LinkedIn should prove immensely helpful to you
here, in locating such people. If you’re not already on it, get on it (www.​
LinkedIn.​com/​reg/​join).
Maybe this will be easy. Maybe it won’t be: it’s possible you’ll run into
an absolute blank wall at a particular organization (everyone who works
there is pledged to secrecy, and they have shipped all their ex-employees
to Siberia). In that case, seek out information on their nearest competitor
in the same geographic area. For example, let us say you were trying to
find out managerial salaries at Bank X, and that place was proving to be
inscrutable about what they pay their managers. You would then turn to
Bank Y as your research base, to see if the information is easier to come
by, there. And if it is, you can assume the two may be basically similar in
their pay scales, and that what you learned about Bank Y is probably
applicable to Bank X.
Note: In your salary research take note of the fact that most
governmental agencies have civil service positions paralleling those in
private industry—and government job descriptions and pay ranges are
available to the public. Go to the nearest city, county, regional, state, or
federal civil service office, find the job description nearest the kind of job
you are seeking in private industry, and then ask the starting salary.
When this is all done, if you want to be a true expert at this game then
you’re going to have to do a little bit of math, here.
Suppose you guess that the employer’s range for the kind of job you’re
seeking is $36,500 to $47,200. Before you go in for the interview,
anywhere, you figure out an “asking” range for yourself, that you’re going
to use when and if the interview gets to the salary negotiation part. This
asking range is clever, in that it should “hook in” just below that
employer’s maximum, and then go up from there. This diagram shows you
how this works:
And so, when the employer has stated a figure (probably around their
lowest—i.e., $36,500), you will be ready to respond with something along
these lines: “I understand, of course, the constraints under which all
organizations are operating these days, but I am confident that my
productivity is going to be such, that it will justify a salary”—and here you
mention the range above, where your bottom figure starts just below the
top of their range, and goes up from there—“in the range of $47,000 to
$58,000.”
It will help a lot during this discussion, if you are prepared to show in
what ways you will make money or in what ways you will save money for
that organization, such as would justify precisely this higher salary you are
asking for. Even if they accept your offer at the bottom of your range, you
are still near the top figure they’re willing to pay.
Yes, it’s clever. Yes, it’s risky. Yes, it takes some work. But you’ve got
the brains to pull it off. You’ve got the brains to be good at this salary
negotiation game.
What if, after all the trouble you went to, this just doesn’t work? At
least, at that place. The employer has a ceiling they have to work with, it’s
below what you’re asking, and you are unwilling to lower your definition
of what you’re worth?
Daniel Porot, job-expert from Switzerland, suggests that if you’re dying
to work there, but they cannot afford the salary you need and deserve, you
might consider offering them part of your time.
If you need, and believe you deserve, say, $50,000 annually, but they
can only afford $30,000, you might consider offering them three days a
week of your time for that $30,000 (30/50 = 3/5 of a five-day workweek).
This leaves you free to take work elsewhere during those other two days.
You will of course determine to produce so much work during those three
days per week you are there, that they will be ecstatic about this bargain—
won’t you?
The Sixth Secret of Salary Negotiation
Know How to Bring the Salary Negotiation to a Close; Don’t Leave It
“Just Hanging”
Salary negotiation with this employer is not finished until you’ve
addressed more than salary. Unless you’re an independent contractor, you
want to talk about so-called fringe benefits. “Fringes” such as life
insurance, health benefits or health plans, vacation or holiday time, and
retirement programs typically add anywhere from 15% to 28% to many
workers’ salaries. That is to say, if an employee receives $3,000 salary per
week, the fringe benefits are worth another $450 to $840 per week.
So, before you walk into an interview you should decide what benefits
are particularly important to you. And then, after the basic salary
discussion is settled, you can go on to ask them what benefits they offer
there. If you’ve given this any thought beforehand, you should have
already decided what benefits are most important to you, and be ready to
fight for those.
And when all this is done, the discussion of the job, the finding out if
they like you and if you like them, the salary negotiation, and the
concluding discussion of benefits, then you want to get everything they’re
offering summarized, in writing. Believe me you do. In writing, or typed,
and signed.
Many executives unfortunately “forget” what they told you during the
hiring-interview, or even deny they ever said such a thing. It shouldn’t
happen; but it does. Sometimes they honestly forget what they said.
Other times of course, they’re playing a game. Or their successor is,
who may disown any unwritten promises you claim they made to you at
the time of hiring. They may respond with, “I don’t know what caused
them to say that to you, but they clearly exceeded their authority, and of
course we can’t be held to that.”
I repeat: get it all in writing. And signed. It’s called a letter of agreement
—or employment contract. If it is a small employer (10 or fewer
employees) they may not know how to draw one up. Just put the search
term “sample letter of agreement between employer and employee” into
your favorite search engine, and you’ll get lots of free examples. I
particularly like the one from Inc.​com. You or the employer can write this
up. Then they can sign it.
You have every right to ask for this. If they simply won’t give it to you,
beware.
Conclusion: If Nothing Works
Remember, job-hunting always involves luck, to some degree. But with a
little bit of luck, a lot of hard work, and determination on your part, these
instructions thus far in this book, should work for you, as they have
worked for so many hundreds of thousands before you.3
But. Maybe it won’t. Maybe you’ll faithfully follow everything in these
first five chapters, and you still can’t find a job. Tempting, at that point, to
think it’s just the sluggish economy, isn’t it? The only irritating little fact:
there were ten million vacancies last month. Why didn’t you get one of
them?
There must be something different that you can do. Right?
There sure is.
That’s what the rest of this book is about.
1. One job-hunter said his interviews always began with the salary question, and no
matter what he answered, that ended the interview. Turned out, this job-hunter was
doing all the interviewing over the phone. That was the problem. Once he went
face-to-face, salary was no longer the first thing discussed in the interview.
2. For a directory of Internet cafés around the world, see www.​cybercafes.​com.
3. Here is a letter from a job-hunter who had great success:
Before I read this book, I was depressed and lost in the futile job-hunt using Want
Ads only. I did not receive even one phone call from any ad I answered, over a
total of four months. I felt that I was the most useless person on earth. I am female,
with a two-and-a-half-year-old daughter, a former professor in China, with no
working experience at all in the U.S. We came here seven months ago because my
husband had a job offer here.
Then, on June 11th of last year, I saw your book in a local bookstore.
Subsequently, I spent three weeks, ten hours a day except Sunday, reading every
single word of your book and doing all of the flower petals in the Flower Exercise.
After getting to know myself much better, I felt I was ready to try the job-hunt
again. I used Parachute through out as my guide, from the very beginning to the
very end, namely, salary negotiation.
In just two weeks I secured (you guessed it) two job offers, one of which I am
taking, as it is an excellent job, with very good pay. It is (you guessed it again) a
small company, with twenty or so employees. It is also a career-change: I was a
professor of English; now I am to be a controller!
I am so glad I believed your advice: there are jobs out there, and there are two
types of employers out there, and truly there are! I hope you will be happy to hear
my story.
 
It is common sense
To take a method and try it.
If it fails, admit it frankly and try another.
But above all, try something.
—Franklin D. Roosevelt (1882–1945)
CHAPTER 6
What to Do When Your Job-
Hunt Just Isn’t Working
Well, that happens.
And after the “I can’t believe this is happening to me,” after a minor or
great depression, and despair, when we’ve finally gathered our strength
again, and are ready to try again, launching a new assault on the job-
market, what then?
Surely, not just more of the same. Not just visiting job-sites five times a
day instead of once a day. Not just sending out 500 resumes instead of
200. No, you’ve got to make some new rules for yourself.
Here are the three most important rules, discovered by discouraged job-
hunters who were, in the end, successful:
1. Never give up.
2. Never give up.
3. Never give up.
If you feel like you’re up against huge forces that are beyond your
control, then figure out what portion is within your control, however small,
and work on that.
Try a different approach. Be willing to work harder at this, than you
have up to now. But don’t just work harder. Work smarter. Try a different
strategy than you’ve been pursuing up to now.
Come on! You are unique. No one else has your fingerprints, your eye
scan, your soul, or your good heart. Believe in yourself. You were born for
a reason. Find it!
Use your brains. Do some hard thinking. You can solve this.
The Two Very Different Strategies for
Finding a Job
Here’s the good news: there are two very different ways you can go about
the job-hunt or a career-change. In the previous five chapters, we’ve been
discussing one and only one of them. Why? Just because. Because that’s
the way everyone tells us we should hunt for work. Because that’s the way
we’ve always done it. Because that’s the only way we know.
This strategy has a name. It’s called The Traditional Approach. Most of
us know how to do this, or can quickly learn. It doesn’t demand much
time. You begin with the so-called job-market. You look at the ad postings
by employers, online and off. You approach those companies that look the
least bit interesting to you. Wait to see if you get any responses. At the
same time you slap together a resume. Post it. Or send out bushel baskets
of resumes to mailing lists. If that doesn’t turn up any job offer, send out
another ton of resumes. Post your resume everywhere.
If this all works for you, great! (But then, if it did, you probably
wouldn’t be reading this chapter, would you?)
But, if it doesn’t work (for you) the good news is that there is a radically
different second way to hunt for work or a career-change. Let’s call it The
Parachute Approach.
Here you begin, not with the job-market but with yourself. You figure
out who you are, and among all your gifts which ones you most love to
use. Then (and only then) you go looking for organizations that match You.
And you do not wait until they announce they have a vacancy. You
approach them anyway, not through a resume but through a person,
specifically a bridge-person—someone who knows you and also knows
them, and therefore is a bridge between you two.
This page has a detailed comparison of these two radically different
strategies.
If you’ve tried as hard as you can to find a job, and nothing is working,
stop looking for explanations. The remedy is staring you in the face: you
need to switch approaches. If you’ve been depending solely on The
Traditional Approach—and it just isn’t working this time—then you need
to try using The Parachute Approach—as outlined in the right-hand
column of the chart.
Sure, it’s harder to use this approach.
Sure, it requires more of you. It’s more work.
Sure, it asks you to do some hard thinking and reflect on who you are,
and where you’re going with your life.
But that is precisely its value. It’s not just about jobs. It forces you to
step back, and first think about your whole life. And what you want out of
life. It begins with Who (are you) before considering What (shall I do).
Who precedes What.
These, then, are the two basic job-hunting or career-changing strategies
that are at your command. But the first strategy—The Traditional
Approach—can be broken down further, into eleven subcategories.
Here are some comparative statistics for those eleven. We’ll start with
the worst, and work our way up: from the ones with the poorest track
record, to the ones with the best. (Just remember, the figures here are not
exactly scientific. It’s a mash of actual studies I once saw, plus, where no
studies have ever been done, my own impressions over the past forty-five
years of working with job-hunters or career-changers.)
The Eleven Best and Worst Traditional
Approaches to Looking for a Job
1. Looking for employers’ job-postings on the Internet. This method
apparently works on average just 4% of the time. Yeah, it works for
just four out of every one hundred who try it. You’re somewhere
between surprised and shocked at this finding? I was too.
It is strange. If you’re out of work, everyone will tell you the best
way to look for a job is to look for employers’ job-postings
(vacancies)—either on the employer’s own website (if the job-hunter
or career-changer has a particular organization in mind); or on
websites or job-boards such as Monster, CareerBuilder, Glassdoor,
Career Bliss, US.jobs, TweetMyJobs, LinkedIn, Twitter, or
Facebook; or on omnibus job-search engines, such as Indeed,
SimplyHired, or Linkup; or niche sites for particular industries, such
as Dice; or on non-job sites such as the hugely popular Craigslist. The
Internet is the place to look, they will tell you.
The question is, are they right?
The answer is: well, that depends.
The anecdotal evidence is sometimes impressive. You will hear
stories of job-hunters who have been tremendously successful in
using the Internet to find a job. Examples:
A job-seeker, a systems administrator in Taos, New Mexico, who
wanted to move to San Francisco posted his resume at 10 p.m. on a
Monday night, on a San Francisco online site (it happened to be
www.​craigslist.​org). By Wednesday morning he had over seventy
responses from employers.
Again, a marketing professional developed her resume following
guidance she found on the Internet, posted it to two advertised
positions she found there, and within seventy-two hours of posting
her electronic resume, both firms contacted her, and she is now
working for one of them.
And again: “Thanks to the Internet, I found what I believe to be the
ideal job in [just] eight weeks—a great job with a great company and
great opportunities.”
The question is, are these stories just flukes, or is this a universal
experience?
Sadly, it turns out that this job-search method actually doesn’t
work for very many who try it. Exception to this: if you are seeking a
technical or computer-related job, an IT job, or a job in engineering,
finances, or healthcare, the success rate rises, to around 10%. But for
the other 12,741 job-titles that are in the Dictionary of Occupational
Titles, at www.​occupationalinfo.​org, the success rate reportedly
remains at just 4%.
2. Posting or mailing out your resume to employers. As you may
have guessed from your own experience, this works at getting you a
job (or, more accurately, at getting you an interview that leads to a
job) only 7% of the time, apparently.
This comes as a shock to most job-hunters.
When you’re unemployed, and job-hunting, or trying to change
careers, everyone will tell you: a good resume will get you a job. It’s
virtually an article of faith among the unemployed (and their well-
meaning helpers).
Why does everyone keep telling us this, when resumes in fact have
such a miserable track record? Oh, you tell me. Why did everyone
entrust their money to Bernie Madoff? Or why did so many people
buy those incredibly risky financial instruments or mortgages that led
to the Great Recession back in 2007? I don’t know. I guess if you
hear something often enough, and from enough different sources, you
start to think it must be true.
Anyway, there it stands. Indisputable. The success rate of resumes
is clearly no more than 7%. And I’m being generous with that
estimate. One study suggested that only 1 out of 1,470 resumes
actually resulted in a job. Another study found the figure to be even
worse: 1 job offer for every 1,700 resumes floating around out there.
By the way, once you post your resume on the Internet, it gets
copied quickly by “spiders” from other sites, and you can never
remove it completely from the Internet. There are reportedly now at
least 40,000,000 resumes floating around out there in the ether, like
lost ships on the Sargasso Sea. Yours, among them. That can come
back to haunt you if you ever fibbed (lied?) about anything, once a
would-be employer Googles you, even years later.
3. Answering local newspaper ads. This method works somewhere
between 5% of the time, on up to 24% (at best).3
With this method, you answer “help wanted ads” in your local
newspaper, especially the Sunday edition, assuming your city or town
still has a newspaper, online or in print, or both. See www.​job-hunt.​
org/​findingjobs/​findingjobs_classifieds.​shtml for how to use them.
As for a directory of online newspapers from around the U.S., your
best bet is www.​usnpl.​com.
The fluctuation between 5% and 24% is due to the level of salary
that is being sought; those job-hunters looking for low-level salary
jobs find this method works 24% of the time. Those looking for a
high salary find it works only 5% of the time.
4. Going to private employment agencies or search firms for help.
This method apparently works somewhere between 5% of the time,
on up to 28% (at best). These agencies used to place just office
workers; now it’s hard to think of a category of jobs they don’t try to
place, especially in large metropolitan areas. A directory of these
firms in your area can be found at www.​yellowpages.​com. Into their
search engine put “Employment agencies” and the name of your local
town or city, to get the relevant listings. The wide variation in success
rate (5%–28%) is due to the fact that these agencies vary greatly in
their staffing (ranging from extremely competent on down to inept, or
running a scam). But, at their best, agencies are four times more
effective than just depending on your resume.
5. Answering ads in professional or trade journals, appropriate to
your field. This method apparently works only 7% of the time. The
method consists of looking at professional journals in your profession
or field, and answering any ads there that intrigue you. A directory of
these associations and their journals can be found at www.​
directoryofassociations.​com.
6. “Job Clubs.” There are hundreds of job-hunting groups that call
themselves “job clubs.” Sorry, they are not. Their job-hunting success
rate is usually around 10%, if that. They tend to meet only once a
week, and then for only a couple of hours, and may more accurately
be described as Job-Search Support Groups.
A true “job club” is something quite different. They have (or had)
a success rate of 84%.
The term was invented by Nathan Azrin. In his method, job-
hunting was a 9 to 5 job, Monday through Friday, every week. You
met with other job-hunters during the hours 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. each
day, to work on the inventory of yourself, to research companies that
interested you, and to contact them by phone.
During the morning sessions you worked with a partner, and each
of you took turns listening to the other on the phone (using an
extension phone), and then the partner gave you feedback after you
had hung up.
From 1 to 5 p.m. you then went out, individually, into the
community, town, or city, and actually visited places, doing
informational interviews, or keeping appointments you’d set up.
Before you went out, each job-hunter shared with the rest of the
group what kind of job they were looking for. That meant, you had
other eyes out there looking for any leads (rhymes with needs) that
might help you. And you of course did the same for them. This
method worked well over 84% of the time.
Many years ago I audited groups that used this method, plus similar
job clubs in Michigan, Boston, San Diego, and Northern California,
and I can tell you those job clubs worked as well as I have here
described. But, the model is rarely to be found anymore, for four
reasons: the loss of federal funding (CETA) for such programs; the
increasing use of the telephone as a barrier instead of for
communication (“Please choose among the following eight
options”); the rise of new technologies (the Internet, email, texting,
etc.); and—I hate to say it, but I’m afraid it’s true—a diminishing
willingness in Western culture to have to work this hard at the job-
hunt.
So most so-called “job clubs” meet only once a week, and then for
only one, two, or three hours, at best. The success rate has dropped to
only 10% on average (there are exceptions). But the blueprint still
exists, and could be updated, if our culture ever decides to revive—
and could find the funding for—such a successful approach.4
But here’s some good news, for now: even “dumbed down,” Job-
Search Support Groups have one sterling virtue, and that is, they
provide a community for the otherwise lonely job-hunter. This is a
great gift. No one should ever have to job-hunt all by themselves, if
they can possibly avoid it. We all need encouragement and support,
along the way. And done well, as in the Rotary Club’s Job-Search
Support Group, in Cupertino, CA, they can enjoy a higher success
rate than merely 10%. (Cupertino’s is 50%, year after year, using this
book as their guide.)
7. Going to the state or federal employment office. This method
works 14% of the time. You go to your local federal/state
unemployment service office (www.​dol.​gov/​dol/​location.​htm) or to
their nationwide CareerOneStop business centers (https://www.​
careeronestop.​org/​LocalHelp/​local-help.​aspx), now alternatively
called American Job Centers, to get instructions on how to better job-
hunt, and find job-leads.
8. Going to places where employers pick up workers. If you’re a
union member, particularly in the trades or construction, and you
have access to a union hiring hall, this method will find you work, up
to 22% of the time.
What is not stated, however, is how long it may take to get a job at
the hall, and how short-lived such a job may be. In the trades, it’s
often just a few days. Moreover, this is not a job-hunting method that
is open to a very large percentage of job-hunters, at all. Only 6.4% of
private sector employees are union members these days. (For
employees in the public sector the comparable figure is 34.4%.5)
If you’re not a union member, there’s something similar to union
halls. That is, employers may pick up workers (called day-laborers)
early in the morning on well-known street corners in your town or
city (ask around). It’s called pickup work, it’s usually short-term,
usually yard work, or work that requires you to use your hands,
usually paid to you in cash that day, and definitely temp work. But if
you’re not finding full-time work, as yet, this may be a stop-gap
approach that at least can bring in a little money.
The modern-day version of “pickup work” is the so-called sharing
economy, or access economy. You can explore using your home
(www.​airbnb.​com) or your 2005+ four-door car (either www.​uber.​
com, or www.​lyft.​com) or other things, even your driveway www.​
justpark.​com), to make some extra money. There are numerous
articles about this sharing economy. See a U.S. article (http://time.​
com/​3687305/​testing-the-sharing-economy) and a British one
(http://www.​spectator.​co.​uk/​2015/​03/​get-your-share-of-the-
sharing-economy) if you want to explore this kind of pickup work.
9. Asking for job-leads. This method works 33% of the time. With this
method you ask family members, friends, and people you know in the
community (or on LinkedIn) if they know of any place where
someone with your talents and background is being sought. It is a
simple question: do you know of any job vacancies at the place where
you work—or elsewhere? Using this method, you have an almost five
times better chance of finding a job, than if you had just sent out your
resume.
10. Knocking on the door of any employer, office, or manufacturing
plant. This method works 47% of the time. It works best with small
employers (25 or less employees) as you might have guessed.
Sometimes you blunder into a place where a vacancy has just
developed. One job-hunter knocked on the door of an architectural
office at 11 a.m. His predecessor (for he did get hired there) had just
quit at 10 a.m. that morning. If you try this method and nothing turns
up, you broaden your definition of small employer to those with 50 or
less employees. With this method you have an almost seven times
better chance of finding a job than if you had just depended on your
resume.
11. Using the Yellow Pages. This method works 65% of the time. It
involves going through the Yellow Pages of your local phone book,
or actually, the Index to those Yellow Pages, so you can identify
subjects or fields of interest to you. Then you go from the Index to the
actual Yellow Pages and look up names of organizations or
companies in those fields, in that town or city where you want to
work. You call them, set up an appointment, go visit them, and
explore whether or not they are hiring for the kind of work you do, or
the position you are looking for. Of course, in this post-2008 period,
it’s a lot harder to get employers to consent to see you—in large
companies, anyway. Still, you will note that you have a nine times
better chance of finding a job with this method, than if you had just
depended on your resume.
Well, that’s it. That’s The Traditional Approach, split up into its eleven
parts. These job-hunting methods were not created equal. Some methods,
as we have seen, have a pretty good track record, and therefore will repay
you for time spent pursuing them. But other methods have a really terrible
track record, and are a waste of your time, and energy. It’s all about
conservation of energy. And wisdom would say conserve your energy.
Invest it well.
So, we turn now—in the next chapters—to the other approach to job-
hunting or career-changing: The Parachute Approach. It begins, not with
examining the job-market, but with examining yourself.
1. I’m indebted to Daniel Porot for this term.
2. See chapter 9 for an explanation of this term.
3. The statistics I allude to, throughout this chapter, fluctuate somewhat, from year to
year, from geographical region to region, from one field to another, from one city,
town, or rural area to another. Their best value is how they compare to other job-
hunting methods. That ratio tends to remain fairly constant, and predictable, year
after year. One exception: the success rate for resumes got worse, after 2008; in
fact, much worse. And despite the recovery we are experiencing, the success rate
hasn’t improved as much as you would have expected.
4. Azrin’s detailed manual describing his method, as he used it successfully with ex-
mental patients, has been out of print for years; but the desperate, really, really
desperate, could find it for $99 on up to $600 on Amazon.​com and elsewhere
online. Its exact title is Job Club Counselor’s Manual: A Behavioral Approach to
Vocational Counseling. To be frank, it’s not worth anywhere near these prices,
inasmuch as Azrin’s model would need some thoughtful revision and adaptation to
work well in today’s world. But the book’s price is so high because my friend
Nathan died in 2013 and doubtless fans and friends are searching for mementos of
him and his ideas. I knew him well; he was a remarkable man.
5. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Economic News Release,
“Union Members Summary,” January 26, 2017, www.​bls.​gov/​news.​release/​union2.​
nr0.​htm.
 
You do get to a certain point in life
Where you have to realistically, I think,
Understand that the days are getting shorter.
And you can’t put things off,
Thinking you’ll get to them someday.
If you really want to do them,
You better do them….
So I’m very much a believer in knowing
What it is that you love doing
So that you can do a great deal of it.
—Nora Ephron (1941–2012)
CHAPTER 7
Self-Inventory, Part 1
Introduction
Make no mistake. This isn’t just a matter of staring at your navel. This is a
job-hunting method—the most effective one, at that. This method,
faithfully followed, step by step, works 86% of the time. That means that
out of every 100 job-hunters or career-changers who faithfully execute this
job-hunting method, 86 will get lucky and find a job thereby; 14 job-
hunters out of the 100 will not—if they use only this method. Note well:
You have a twelve times better chance of finding work using this method,
than if you had just sent out your resume. Not just work, but work you
really want to do. What we sometimes refer to as “our dream job.”
Why a SELF-Inventory
Why does an inventory of who you are, work so well in helping you find
work, after traditional job-hunting methods have failed? That’s important
to know, because the answer will keep you motivated to finish this
inventory, when otherwise you might say, OMG, this is just too much
work! And just give up.
Okay, here are seven answers as to why this works so well:
1. By doing this homework on yourself, you learn to describe
yourself in at least six different ways, and therefore you can
approach multiple job-markets. Retraining, as it is commonly
practiced in Western culture, prepares you for only one market. Thus
someone decides that out-of-work construction workers should be
retrained, let us say, to be computer repair people. Hence, their job-
hunt approaches only one market. And if no jobs can be found in that
market, once they are trained? Retraining wasted. This is why
retraining programs sometimes acquire such a bad reputation.
But with an inventory of who you are, you stop identifying yourself
by only one job-title. You can now think of yourself as not just “a
computer repair person,” or “a construction worker” or “accountant”
or “engineer” or “minister” or “ex-military” or whatever. You are a
person who has these multiple skills and experiences. If, say, teaching
and writing and growing things are your favorite skills, then you can
approach either the job-market of teaching, or that of writing, or that
of gardening. Multiple job-markets open up to you, not just one.
2. By doing this homework on yourself, you can describe in detail
exactly what you are looking for. This greatly enables your friends,
LinkedIn contacts, and family, to better help you. You approach them
not with, “Uh, I’m out of work; let me know if you hear of anything,”
but with a much more exact description of what kind of “anything,”
and in what work setting. This greatly helps them to focus down, and
look for something very specific, thus increasing their helpfulness to
you, and your ability to find jobs you would otherwise never find.
3. By ending up with a picture of a job that would really excite you,
and not just any old job, you will inevitably pour much more
time, energy, and determination into your job-search. This is
really worth looking for. So, you will redouble your efforts, your
dedication, and your determination when otherwise you might try but
soon give up. Persistence is the essence of a successful job-hunt, and
persistence becomes your middle name, once you’ve identified a
prize worth fighting for.
4. By doing this homework, you will no longer have to wait to
approach companies until they say they have a vacancy. Once
done with this homework, you can choose places that match who you
are, and then approach them (through a contact, or what I like to call
a “bridge-person” because they know both you and them, and thus
serve as a bridge between you)—knowing confidently that you will
be an asset there, if they turn out to have a job opening or decide to
create one for you.
Create one for you? No, I’m not kidding. This happens more often
than you would ever think, to the prepared job-hunter or career-
changer. Wrote one job-hunter to me recently:
In my mind I knew where I wanted to work: a company I had had a
couple of meetings with about an imperfect job about two years
ago and fell in love with. I found the CEO on LinkedIn, asked him
if he remembered me and would he be up for a short meeting if I
promised it would be fun. He said he would love to meet and I
pitched the idea of setting up a training academy for them. About a
month later, I had an email to say they definitely want to go ahead
with providing training as I had pitched it. The job did not exist,
they had not conceived of the job, and it meets all my criteria
because I thought of it. [From] Parachute to dream job in six
months is not bad is it?
5. When you are facing, let us say, nineteen other competitors for
the job you want—equally experienced, equally skilled—you will
stand out above them all, because you can accurately describe to
employers exactly what is unique about you, and what you bring
to the table that the others do not. These will usually turn on
adjectives or adverbs, what we normally call traits. More on that, in
the next chapter.
6. If you are contemplating a career-change, maybe—after you
inventory yourself—you will see definitely what new career or
direction you want for your life. Often you can put together a new
career just using what you already know and what you already can do
—with much less training or retraining than you thought you would
have to do. I’m not talking about a dramatic change, like going from
salesperson to doctor: for that, you will need to start over. But most
career-changes are not that dramatic, as I will show you, in chapter
11. But first, please, please, inventory who you are and what you love
to do.
It may turn out that the knowledge you need to pick up can be
found in a vocational/technical school, or in a (one- or) two-year
college.
And sometimes, sometimes, it can be found simply by doing
enough informational interviewing (more about this in chapter 9).
Example: A job-hunter named Bill had worked for a number of years
in retail; now he was debating a career-change—working in the oil
industry. But he knew virtually nothing about that industry. However,
he went from person to person who worked at companies in that
industry, just seeking information about the industry. The more of
these “informational interviews” he conducted, the more he knew. In
fact, coming down the home stretch, just before he got hired in the
place of his dreams, he found he now knew more than the people he
was visiting, about their competitors and some aspects of the industry.
In other words, with certain kinds of career-change, there is more
than one way to pick up the knowledge you need.
7. Unemployment is an interruption, in most of our lives. And
interruptions are opportunities, to pause, to think, to assess where
we really want to go with our lives. Martin Luther King Jr. had
something to say about this:
The major problem of life is learning how to handle the costly
interruptions. The door that slams shut, the plan that got
sidetracked, the marriage that failed. Or that lovely poem that
didn’t get written because someone knocked on the door.
A self-inventory is just that type of thinking and assessing.The
Parachute Approach, with its demand that you do an inventory of who
you are and what you love to do, before you set out on your search for
(meaningful) work, helps you take advantage of the opportunity that
this interruption presents.
So there you have it: the seven reasons why this inventory of who you
are, works so much better as a method of job-hunting than all other
methods.
Being out of work, or thinking about a new career, should speak to your
heart. It should say something like this:
Use this opportunity. Make this not only a hunt for a job, but a hunt for
a life. A deeper life, a victorious life, a life you’re prouder of.
The world currently is filled with workers whose weeklong cry is,
“When is the weekend going to be here?” And, then, “Thank God it’s
Friday!” Their work puts bread on the table but…they are bored out of
their minds. They’ve never taken the time to think out what they uniquely
can do, and what they uniquely have to offer to the world. The world
doesn’t need any more bored workers. Dream a little. Dream a lot.
One of the saddest pieces of advice in the world is, “Oh come now—be
realistic.” The best parts of this world were not fashioned by those who
were “realistic.” They were fashioned by those who dared to look hard at
their wishes and then gave them horses to ride.
How to Do a SELF-Inventory
These are the things you will need:
1. Mental Preparation
You begin by stripping yourself (in your mind) of any past job-titles.
When you ask yourself “Who am I?” you must drop the vocational answer
that first springs to mind. Like: I’m an accountant, or I am a truck driver,
or a lawyer, or a construction worker, or salesperson, or designer, or
writer, or account executive. That kind of an answer locks you into the
past. You must think instead: “I am a person…”
“I am a person who…has had these experiences.”
“I am a person who…is skilled at doing this or that.”
“I am a person who…knows a lot about this or that.”
“I am a person who…is unusual in this way or that.”
Yes, this is how a useful self-inventory begins. You are a person, not a
job.
2. One Sheet of Paper (Digital or Physical)
Brain researchers such as Barbara Brown of USC discovered that when
you are trying to make any kind of decision about your life, the most
effective strategy is to shrink down every significant thing you know about
yourself onto one piece of paper.1 At least at the end. Not a journal, or a
bunch of Post-It Notes, or several pieces of paper. Just one. (Write small.)
In this book that one piece of paper that you end up with, is called The
Flower Exercise, or Flower Diagram.
3. A Number of Worksheets
As you are working your way toward summarizing everything important
about yourself on just one piece of paper, you are going to need along the
way a number of disposable blank pieces of paper—I call them worksheets
—in order to do a particular exercise (or two) that I will show you, for
each flower petal. I emphasize disposable. You will ultimately be copying
the final results from these worksheets onto your Flower Diagram, after
which you can throw these worksheets away. For these worksheets, you
are going to need to get a bunch of 20 lb. blank sheets of paper.
4. Some Kind of a Graphic or Picture
Again, brain researchers discovered that it helps immensely in making a
decision about your life, if you don’t just put a flood of words on that one
piece of paper, but add some kind of a graphic, picture, or diagram. They
discovered that this encouraged the right side of your brain, to spring into
action—the part of your brain that can look at a whole bunch of apparently
unrelated data and exclaim “Aha! I see what it all means.” Some like to
call this your intuitive side, the opposite of your logical side.
In the workshops that I taught from 1970 to 2012, I encouraged my
students to choose any graphic they wished. We needed a picture with
seven parts to it, corresponding to the seven parts of you that are important
in finding matching work. Well, the favorite graphic turned out to be a
picture or diagram of yourself as a flower, with a center and six other
petals. Hence the title of our self-inventory: The Flower Diagram (or
Flower Exercise).
5. A Prioritizing Instrument or Grid
It is easy to imagine that the purpose of a self-inventory is to gather a
series of personal lists, to which you then try to match possible jobs or
careers. For example, “Here’s a list of all the things I want in my place of
work.” Or: “This is a list of all the skills I want to be able to use at my next
job, or career.” But over the past forty years or so, we have discovered
that lists are useless, unless and until the items on each list are put into
order of priority or importance for you: this item is most important to me,
this is next most important, next, then next, etc.
And why is this? Well, we live in an imperfect world, and—at least
initially—you may not be able to find a match for all the items on your
lists. You may only be able to find a match for some of the items. There
will be only a partial overlap between “dream job” and “actual job,” in
which case it is important that the overlap be the items you care the most
about, not the least. And how will you know that, unless you put the items
on each list in order of importance to you?
Here is the problem visually summarized:
Click here to download a PDF of the Prioritizing Instrument or Grid.
Okay, so prioritizing is essential. How do you go about this? Having
compiled a list of, say, ten items on one of the petals in your Flower
Diagram, how do you decide which of the ten is absolutely the most
important to you, which of the ten is next most important, etc.? It seems at
first sight a bewildering challenge. Actually, it’s easier than you think, if…
If…you compare just two items at a time, until you’ve compared all
the possible pairs in that list of ten items. With all the pairs displayed in
one diagram, this works out to be a grid. And the most popular form of
that grid turns out to be my Prioritizing Grid, which I invented back in
1976. It can be for any number of items you choose, but the most common
and simplest form of it is for ten items. (Got more than ten—or less? See
http://www.​beverlyryle.​com/​prioritizing-grid for instructions.)
Anyway, the facing page shows what a ten-item Grid looks like, once it
is completed. As you can see, this example deals with a ten-item list of
“People I’d Prefer Not to Have to Work With.” (You will produce this list,
or one like it, by means of an exercise you will find in the next chapter,
reviewing your past experiences.) I’ll use this example to illustrate how
you use any ten-item Grid.
(I originally had more than ten items as a result of that exercise, but by
guess and by gosh I narrowed them down to my top ten, and then worked
just with them, here.)
Section A. Here I put my list of ten items, in any order I choose. So,
as you can see, the people I’d prefer not to have to work with, are
those who are: bossy, never thank anyone, are messy in dress or
office space, claim too much, are uncompassionate, never tell the
truth, are always late, are totally undependable, feel superior to
others, or never have any ideas. The order in which I list these items
here in Section A doesn’t matter at all.
Section B. Here are displayed all the possible pairs among those ten.
Each pair is in a little box, or rather the numbers that represent each
pair, are in a little box. You ask each box a question. The framing of
the question is crucial. The question you address to each box is:
“Between these two items, which is more important to me?” Or,
since this is a Grid of dislikes, “Which of these two do I dislike
more?” (Think of choosing between two hypothetical jobs.)
Let’s see how this works. We’ll start with the first little box at the
top. The box has the numbers 1 and 2 in it. (#1 stands for bossy,
while #2 stands for never thanks anyone). So, the question is: which
do you dislike more: #1 or #2? You circle your preference—in that
box. I circled #1—as you can see—because I dislike being around
bossy people at work more than I dislike being around ungrateful
people.
You go on now to the second box (down diagonally to the southeast)
which has in it the second pairing, in this case, the numbers 2 and 3.
The question again: which do you dislike more? I circled #3 in that
box—as you can see—because I dislike being around messy people
at work more than I dislike being around people who never thank
anyone.
And so it goes, until you’ve circled one number in each little box in
Section B.
Section C. Section C has three rows to it, at the bottom of the Grid,
as you can see. The first row is just the ten numbers from Section A.
The second row is how many times each of those numbers just got
circled in Section B. As you can see, item #1 got circled 7 times,
item #2 got circled 1 time (as did item #10—a tie—so, to break the
tie I look up in section B to find the little box that had both #2 and
#10 in it, to see which I preferred at that time, and I see it was #2, so
I give #2 an extra 1/2 point here, over #10.) Item #3 I notice got
circled three times, but so did item #4 and item #7—a three-way tie!
How to break that tie? Well, here you’ll just have to do some
guessing. I guessed these were important to me in this order: #4, #7,
and then #3. So, I added a half point to #4 and a quarter point to #7; I
left #3 as it was.
In the third and bottommost row of Section C, I put the ranking
according to the number of circles in the second row. Item #6 got the
most circles—9—so it is number 1 in ranking. Item #8 got the next
most circles—8—so it is number 2 in ranking. And so it goes, until
that whole bottom line is filled in. Now the only task remaining on
this Grid is to copy the reorganized list onto Section D.
Section D. The aim here is to relist my ten items (from Section A) in
the exact order of preference or priority, for me, using Section C as
my guide. Item #6 got the most circles there, and it ranked #1, so I
copy the words for item #6 in the number 1 position in Section D.
Item #8 ranked second, so I copy the words for item #8 into the
second spot in Section D. Etc. Etc.2 What I am left with, now, in
Section D, is the ten items in the exact order of my preference and
priority. Nice! I can copy them all now—or at least the first five—
onto my Flower Diagram in the next chapter. I now know what
should be in the overlap between my dream job and the job I initially
find, if I am to be happy and effective in that job.
Where can you find blank copies of this Prioritizing Grid? Here are the
three main places:
• In this book. A ten-item paper version appears throughout the next
chapter. Plus, since some copy centers will not allow you to copy items out
of a book without permission, tell them you have my permission to copy or
reproduce that Grid as many times as you wish, for your own private use
(not for inclusion in an e-book or another published work).
• In a workbook. Its title is What Color Is Your Parachute? Job-
Hunter’s Workbook, Fourth Edition. A little over ten bucks online or at
bookstores; another paper version, but its advantage here is that the
workbook pages are larger—8½ x 11″.
• Online. We are working on an elegant web version of the Grid; can’t
say how soon it will be done. Meantime, I have given my friend Beverly
Ryle permission to produce a simpler online version of my Prioritizing
Grid, that is automated and interactive. It is found at www.​beverlyryle.​
com/​prioritizing-grid and it is free. You can use my ten-item Grid there,
or customize a Grid for any number (of items) you choose. Needless to
say, you can use her website as many times as you wish, and print out the
results each time for your own keeping.
6. Conclusion: Prioritizing the Petals
Before you go on to fill in the petals in the next chapter, it is sometimes
helpful to ask yourself: in the abstract which petals—which parts of a job
—do you instinctively feel are most important to you—at least for now—
and in what order?
a. the salary?
b. the geographical location?
c. the people you work with?
d. the look and feel of your workplace?
e. the degree to which it gives you a sense of purpose for your life, or
fits in with the purpose you want your life to serve?
f. the degree to which it lets you use your favorite skills, abilities, or
talents?
g. the degree to which this job lands you in your favorite field or fields
of knowledge and interest?
You can just guess in what order these are important to you. Or you can
use a seven-item Prioritizing Grid to get this exactly right. (For a paper
version, take a ten-item Grid, draw a horizontal line in Section B, just
below the seventh item in Section A, and don’t use any boxes in Section B
that are below that line. Or if you have access to the Web, you can go to
Beverly Ryle’s website, and create a customized interactive seven-item
Grid, found at http://www.​beverlyryle.​com/​prioritizing-grid.)
If you want to know which petals other people have most often picked
as their first priority in the past, the answer varies. A lot depends on where
you are in your life, and which issue you are most preoccupied with, on
this chart:
If they’re just trying to survive, their first choice is usually the Salary
petal. If they’re on in years, it’s the Purpose petal. If they’re anywhere in
between, it’s the petals dealing with abilities/talents/skills. But all seven
petals are important to you; don’t leave any of them out.
1. Barbara B. Brown (1921–1999) was a research psychologist who created and
popularized the word “biofeedback.”
2. Note that I made a mistake on line 3 in Section D. It never matters if you make a
mistake. Just cross it out and jot down the correct information. It’s okay not to be
perfect.
 
After women,
flowers are the most lovely thing
God has given the world.
Christian Dior (1905–1957)
CHAPTER 8
Self-Inventory, Part 2
The Flower Exercise
This self-inventory is a flower with seven petals (including the center).
That’s because there are seven sides to You, or seven ways of thinking
about yourself, or seven ways of describing who you are—using the
language of the workplace:
If you prefer a different metaphor, you are like a diamond, with seven
facets to you, as we hold you up to the light.
1. You and People. You can describe who you are in terms of the kinds
of people you most prefer to work with or help—age span, problems,
handicaps, geographical location, etc.
2. You and a Workplace. Or you can describe who you are in terms of
your favorite workplace, or working conditions—indoors/outdoors,
small company/large company, windows/no windows, etc.—because
they enable you to work at your top form, and greatest effectiveness.
3. You and Skills. Or you can describe who you are in terms of what
you can do, and what your favorite functional/transferable skills are.
For these are key to your being in top form, and at your greatest
effectiveness.
4. You and Your Purpose in Life. Or you can describe who you are in
terms of your goals or sense of mission and purpose for your life.
Alternatively, or in addition, you can get even more particular and
describe the goals or mission you want the organization to have,
where you decide to work.
5. You and the Knowledges You Already Have. Or you can describe who
you are in terms of what you already know—and what your favorite
knowledges or interests are among all that stuff stored away in your
head.
6. You and Salary/Responsibility. Or you can describe who you are in
terms of your preferred salary and level of responsibility—
working by yourself, or as a member of a team, or supervising others,
or running the show—that you feel most fitted for, by experience,
temperament, and appetite.
7. You and Geography. Or you can describe who you are in terms of
your preferred surroundings—here or abroad, warm/cold,
north/south, east/west, mountains/coast, urban/suburban/rural/rustic—
where you’d be happiest, do your best work, and would most love to
live, all year long, or part of the year, or vacation time, or sabbatical
—either now, five years from now, or at retirement.
I Am a Person Who…
IS ALL THESE THINGS
You could choose just one, two, or three of these sides of yourself—let us
say, “what you know,” or “what you can do,” or “your preferred salary”—
as your guide to defining what kind of work you are looking for.
But what the Flower Diagram does is describe who you are in all seven
ways, summarized on one page, in one graphic. After all, you are not just
one of these things; you are all of these things. The Flower Diagram is a
complete picture of You. All of you. In the language of the workplace.
And believe me, you want the complete picture. I’ll tell you why. Let’s
say there is some job out there that matches just one petal, one side to
yourself, one way of defining who you are: for example, let’s say this job
lets you use your favorite knowledges that you already have. But that’s it.
That job doesn’t let you use your favorite skills, nor does it have you
working with the kinds of people you most want to, nor does it give you
the surroundings where you can do your best work.
What would you call such a job? At the very least: boring. You would
barely be able to wait for Thank God it’s Friday! Some of us have already
sung that song. A lot.
Photo by Carlos F. Garcia. Used
by permission.
A Complete Picture: Maria Talarico, a Master’s Candidate in Biomedical Engineering,
with her Flower
But now let us suppose you could instead find another kind of work that
matches all seven sides of you. All seven petals. What would you call that
work? Well, that’s your dream job.
So, your complete Flower Diagram is a picture of who You most fully
are. And, at the same time it is a picture of a job that would most
completely match and fulfill all that you are. Where you would shine,
because it uses the best of You.
Make it your goal to completely fill in your Flower. And try to feel it as
a joy rather than a duty. Determine from the beginning that this is going to
be fun. Because it sure can be. And should be.
Readers have asked for a list of all the places, or forms, where they can
find this Flower. Here are the three main forms:
• In this chapter. Of course. A paper version. Free, since you already
have the book.
• In a workbook. Its title is What Color Is Your Parachute? Job-
Hunter’s Workbook, Fourth Edition. You can order it online for a little
over $10; another paper version, but its advantage here is that the
workbook pages are larger—8½ x 11″.
• Online. In response to many requests, we finally produced an online
video course two years ago, walking you through this Flower Exercise step
by step, with me as your guide throughout. Requirements: a computer and
a printer and paper (to print out the worksheets). It is available at a
discounted price ($29) for readers of this book. The unique URL for
ordering it is www.​eParachute.​com/​para18. It can be used by individual
readers or by a whole workshop. (The course was put together by the
principals at eParachute—myself as Content and Onscreen Host, Marci
Bolles as Executive Producer, Gary Bolles as Producer, and Eric Barnett
as Technical Consultant, on Udemy’s platform.)
And, since you asked, there are other online resources on topics related
to this Flower Exercise and this book. Dozens of videos may be found at
www.​youtube.​com/​results?search_query=Richard+Bolles. And a bunch
of articles can be found at www.​jobhuntersbible.​com. One word of
caution: don’t spend a lot of time on these sideroads. Stay focused on your
one main task: completing your Flower, in whatever form you choose.
You can go roaming later.
Now, let’s begin with the seven petals. Here is the first.
I Am a Person Who…
HAS THESE FAVORITE KINDS OF PEOPLE
My Preferred Kinds of People to Work Beside or
Serve
Goal in Filling Out This Petal: To avoid past bad experiences with people at
work, since who (er, whom) you work with can either make the job delightful, or
ruin your day, your week, your year.
What You Are Looking For: (1) A better picture in your mind of what kind of
people surrounding you at work will enable you to operate at your highest and
most effective level. (2) A better picture in your mind of what kind of people you
would most like to serve or help: defined by age, problems, geography, and so
forth.
Form of the Entries on Your Petal: They can be adjectives describing different
kinds of people (“kind,” “patient”) or they can be types of people, as in the
“Holland Code” or “Myers-Briggs” typologies (see this page–this page and this
page, respectively).
Example of a Good Petal: Holland Code: IAS. (1) Kind, generous,
understanding, fun, smart. (2) The unemployed, people struggling with their
faith, worldwide, all ages.
Example of a Bad Petal: People in trouble, young, smart, in urban settings.
Why Bad: Not much help. Too vague.
Petal One, Worksheet #1
A HEXAGON: THE PARTY GAME EXERCISE
Every job or career has a people-environment that is characteristic of that
career. Tell us what career or job interests you, and we can tell you, in
general terms, what kind of people you would prefer to work with (from
among six possibilities). Or start at the other end: tell us what kinds of
people you prefer to work with—in terms of those same six factors—and
we can tell you what careers will give you that.
It was Dr. John L. Holland who came up with this theory, and with a
system for applying the theory to yourself. Surveying the whole
workplace, he said there are basically six people-environments that jobs
can give you. Let’s tick them off (the quotes are John’s definitions):
1. The Realistic People-Environment: filled with people who prefer
activities involving “the explicit, ordered, or systematic manipulation
of objects, tools, machines, and animals.” [Realistic, incidentally,
refers to Plato’s conception of “the real” as that which one can
apprehend through the senses. “Knock on wood!”]
I summarize this as: R = people who like nature, or plants, or
animals, or athletics, or tools and machinery, or being outdoors.
2. The Investigative People-Environment: filled with people who prefer
using their brain, specifically “the observation and symbolic,
systematic, creative investigation of physical, biological, or cultural
phenomena.”
I summarize this as: I = people who are very curious, and like to
investigate or analyze things, or people, or data.
3. The Artistic People-Environment: filled with people who prefer
activities involving “ambiguous, free, unsystematized activities and
competencies to create art forms or products.”
I summarize this as: A = people who are very creative, artistic,
imaginative, and innovative, and don’t like time clocks.1
4. The Social People-Environment: filled with people who prefer
activities involving “the manipulation of others to inform, train,
develop, cure, or enlighten.”
I summarize this as: S = people who are bent on trying to help,
teach, or serve people.
5. The Enterprising People-Environment: filled with people who prefer
activities 
involving 
“the 
manipulation 
of 
others 
to 
attain
organizational or self-interest goals.”
I summarize this as: E = people who like to start up projects or
organizations, or sell things, or influence, or persuade, or lead
people.
6. The Conventional People-Environment: filled with people who
prefer activities involving “the explicit, ordered, systematic
manipulation of data, such as keeping records, filing materials,
reproducing materials, organizing written and numerical data
according to a prescribed plan, operating business and data-
processing machines.” “Conventional,” incidentally, refers to the
“values” that people in this environment usually hold—representing
the historic mainstream of our culture.
I summarize this as: C = people who like detailed work, and like to
complete tasks or projects.
According to John’s theory every one of us could become skilled in all
six, if we were given enough time. Instead, in the limited time we have
from childhood to adulthood, we tend to develop preferences and survival
skills in just three of these people-environments, and this is determined by
who we grew up with, who we admired, and what time we gave to
practicing expertise in these three people-environments, as we wended our
way into adulthood. From among the six letters—RIASEC—you name
your three preferred people-environments and this gives you what is called
your “Holland Code,” for example, SIA. Your question is, Which three?
I was friends with John for many years, and back in 1975 I invented a
quick and easy way for you to find out your Code, based on John’s Self-
Directed Search (SDS). It’s turned out that it agrees with the results you
would get from John’s SDS, 92% of the time (this made John laugh). So if
you want a more certain answer, you should take John’s SDS ($9.95 at
www.​self-directed-search.​com). But when you’re in a hurry, this is close.
And it’s free. I call it “The Party Exercise.” Here is how the exercise goes
(do it, please):
Below is an aerial view of a room in which a party is taking place. At
this party, people with the same interests have (for some reason) all
gathered in the same corner of the room. And that’s true for all six corners.
Click here to download a PDF of The Party Game Exercise.
1. Which corner of the room would you instinctively be drawn to, as the
group of people you would most enjoy being with for the longest
time? (Leave aside any question of shyness, or whether you would
have to actually talk to them; you could just listen.)
Write the letter for that corner here: 
2. After fifteen minutes, everyone in the corner you chose leaves for
another party crosstown, except you. Of the groups that still remain
now, which corner or group would you be drawn to the most, as the
people you would most enjoy being with for the longest time?
Write the letter for that corner here: 
3. After fifteen minutes, this group too leaves for another party, except
you. Of the corners, and groups, which remain now, which one would
you most enjoy being with for the longest time?
Write the letter for that corner here: 
The three letters you just chose are called your “Holland Code.”2
Put that code here: 
 
 
Now, copy that code onto Petal #1, My Preferred Kinds of People to
Work With, found on this page. So far, so good.
Petal One, Worksheet #2
A CHART: ENERGY DRAINERS VS. ENERGY CREATORS
Why do the people you prefer to be around, matter at all—in the larger
scheme of things? Because, the people we work with are either energy
drainers or energy creators. They either drag us down and keep us from
being our most effective, or they lift us up and help us to be at our best,
and perform at our greatest effectiveness.
Here is an exercise to help you identify which is which, for you. You’ll
probably need to copy the chart below on to a larger piece of paper—8½ x
11 inches—before you start filling it in.
Click here to download a PDF of the Energy Drainers Vs. Energy Creators Chart.
Start, of course, by filling in the first column in the chart, and then the
second. This will bring you to the third column, and here you’re gonna
need some help. How do you look back at that stuff in the second column,
and prioritize it? Well, you use the Prioritizing Grid, in either paper or
online form, of course (incidentally, the completed Grid we saw as an
example back in chapter 7 was done precisely at this point).
PRIORITIZING GRID FOR 10 ITEMS OR LESS
Copyright © 2014 by Richard N. Bolles. All rights reserved.
Click here to download a PDF of the Prioritizing Grid for 10 Items or Less.
When you’ve completed this Grid, go back to the chart on this page.
Copy the first five factors from Section D of the Grid, into the third
column of the chart. What you’ve got there, now, is a negative list of what
you’re trying to avoid. But what you want to end up with is a positive list
of what you’re trying to find.
So, look at the five negative items you just put up there, in the third
column of the chart, and in the fourth column, write its opposite, or
something near the opposite, directly opposite each item. By “opposite” I
don’t necessarily mean “the exact opposite.” If one of your complaints in
the third column was: “I was micromanaged, supervised every hour of my
day,” the opposite, in the fourth column, wouldn’t necessarily be “No
supervision.” It might be “Limited supervision” or something like that.
Your call.
Note that by first putting your negative list in exact order of what you
most want to avoid (third column in the chart), your related positive list
(fourth column) will have its factors in the exact order of what you most
want to find in a future job.
Now copy the top five in column 4, onto Petal #1, My Preferred Kinds
of People to Work With, on this page. And we are done (with that petal).
Time now to move on to another side of Who You Are.
I Am a Person Who…
HAS FAVORITE WORKING CONDITIONS
My Preferred Working Conditions
Goal in Filling Out This Petal: To state the working conditions and
surroundings, that would make you happiest, and therefore enable you to do your
most effective work.
What You Are Looking For: Avoiding past bad experiences.
Form of the Entries on Your Petal: Descriptors of physical surroundings.
Example of a Good Petal: A workspace with lots of windows, nice view of
greenery, relatively quiet, decent lunch period, flexibility about clocking in and
clocking out, lots of shops nearby.
Example of a Bad Petal: Understanding boss, good colleagues, fun clients, etc.
Why Bad: These all belong on the petal called Preferred Kinds of People to
Work With, not this one, which is just about the physical surroundings at your
work, not the “people surroundings.” Of course, since this is your Flower
Diagram, you can put any info you like on any petal you like. It’s just that if
you want your thinking to be clear, it’s useful to preserve the difference
between “what is my preferred physical setting?” and “what kinds of people do
I prefer to work with?” or “what clients/customers with what kinds of
problems would I most like to help or serve?”
Your physical setting where you work can cheer you up or drag you down.
It’s important to know this before you weigh whether to take a particular
job offer, or not. The most useful way to do this has proved to be starting
with working conditions that made you unhappy in the past, and then flip
them over into positives, just as we did in the previous exercise.
Plants that grow beautifully at sea level, often perish if they’re taken ten
thousand feet up the mountain. Likewise, we do our best work under
certain conditions, but not under others. Thus, the question: “What are
your favorite working conditions?” actually is a question about “Under
what circumstances do you do your most effective work?”
Petal Two, Worksheet #1
A CHART: PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENTS WHERE I WOULD
THRIVE
As I just mentioned, the best way to approach this is by trying to
remember all the things you disliked about any previous job, using this
chart to list these. (Copy this chart onto a larger piece of paper if you
wish, before you begin filling it out.) Column A may begin with such
factors as: “too noisy,” “too much supervision,” “no windows in my
workplace,” “having to be at work by 6 a.m.,” etc.
As before, when you get to Column B, use a new ten-item Prioritizing
Grid (on this page).
This time, when you compare each two items, the frame you should put
it in, is, “If I were offered two jobs, and in the first job offer I would be rid
of my distasteful working condition #1 but not #2; while in the second job
offer I would be rid of my distasteful working condition #2, but not #1,
which job offer would I take?”
© ScienceCartoonsPlus.​com
DISTASTEFUL WORKING CONDITIONS CHART
Click here to download a PDF of the Distasteful Working Conditions Chart.
After you’ve finished prioritizing, what have you ended up with, in
Section D? The list you should copy into Column B of your Distasteful
Working Conditions chart, above.
Once you have that list in Column B ranked—in terms of most
distasteful down to least distasteful working conditions—turn to Column C
in that chart and write the opposite, or something near the opposite,
directly opposite each item in Column B.
Copy the top five items in Column C, onto Petal #2, the Favorite
Working Conditions petal of your Flower Diagram, this page.
Okay, on to another side of Who You Are.
PRIORITIZING GRID FOR 10 ITEMS OR LESS
Copyright © 2014 by Richard N. Bolles. All rights reserved.
Click here to download a PDF of the Prioritizing Grid for 10 Items or Less.
I Am a Person Who…
CAN DO THESE PARTICULAR THINGS
My Favorite Transferable Skills
Goal in Filling Out This Petal: To discover what your favorite functional skills
are, that can be transferred to any field of interest. They are things you probably
were born knowing how to do, or at least you began with a natural gift and have
honed and sharpened it since.
What You Are Looking For: Not just what you can do, but more particularly
which of those you most love to use.
Form of the Entries on Your Petal: Verbs, usually in pure form (e.g., analyze)
though they may sometimes be in gerund form (ending in -ing, e.g., analyzing).
Example of a Good Petal: (These stories show that I can) innovate, manipulate,
analyze, classify, coach, negotiate; OR (to use the gerund form of these verbs),
these stories show that I am good at innovating, manipulating, analyzing,
classifying, coaching, negotiating.
Example of a Bad Petal: Adaptable, charismatic, reliable, perceptive, discreet,
dynamic, persistent, versatile.
Why Bad: These are all traits, or self-management skills; that is, they turn out
to be the style with which you do your best, favorite, transferable skills. They
are important, but they are not transferable skills. Incidentally, there is a new
category floating around in the past ten years, called “soft skills.” These are
really just another way of speaking about your skills with people, and/or your
self-management skills, because examples typically are things like “a good
work-ethic,” “a positive attitude,” “acting as a team
player,” “flexibility,” “working well under pressure,” and “ability to learn from
criticism.”
Petal Three, Introduction
A CRASH COURSE ABOUT SKILLS, TALENTS, ABILITIES
“Skills” is one of the most misunderstood words in all the world of work.
It begins with high school job-hunters: “I haven’t really got any skills,”
they say. Wrong!
It continues with college students: “I’ve spent four years in college. I
haven’t had time to pick up any skills.” Wrong!
And it lasts through the middle years, especially when a person is
thinking of changing his or her career: “I’ll have to go back to college, and
get retrained, because otherwise I won’t have any skills in my new field.”
Or: “Well, if I claim any skills, I’ll have to start at a very entry kind of
level.” Wrong!
All of this confusion about the word “skills” stems from a total
misunderstanding of what the word means. A misunderstanding that is
shared, we might add, by altogether too many employers, and human
resources departments, and other so-called vocational experts.
By understanding the word, you will automatically put yourself way
ahead of most job-hunters. And, especially if you are weighing a change of
career, you can save yourself much waste of time on the adult folly called,
“I’ll have to go back to school.” I’ve said it before, and I’ll say it again:
maybe you need some further schooling, but very often it is possible to
make a dramatic career-change without any retraining. It all depends. And
you won’t really know whether or not you need further schooling, until
you have finished all the exercises in this self-inventory.
So, let’s begin again. Simple. Precise. Clear. What are skills? According
to “the father” of the Dictionary of Occupational Titles, Sidney Fine, we
all have three kinds of skills—abilities, talents, or whatever you want to
call them.
SIDNEY FINE’S THREE KINDS OF SKILLS
Click here to download a PDF of Sidney Fine's Three Kinds of Skills Chart.
We will deal with the first kind of skills, Transferable Skills, and the
third, Self-Management Skills, during this Petal #3. We will save the
second kind of skills, Special Knowledges Skills, for Petal #5. So, let’s
begin with the Functional or Transferable Skills.
There is a trend these days toward breaking down your functional skills
into categories like “action verbs,” or “communication or people
skills,” “soft 
skills,” “technical 
skills,” “research 
and 
analytical
skills,” “management, supervision, and leadership skills,” “clerical and
administrative 
skills,” “problem-solving 
and 
development
skills,” “financial skills,” etc.
Maybe that’s helpful to you. If so, use it. But for most of us I
recommend breaking down transferable skills into just three simple
categories:
Are they skills you use with information, data, and the like,
or are they skills you use with people,
or are they skills you use with things?
Here’s how the expert, Sidney Fine, further broke them down:
It’s an outdated list, but here are the main points he was trying to make
with these inverted triangles (and these points are timeless):
1. Your transferable (functional) skills are the most basic unit—the
atoms—of whatever job or career you may choose.
2. You should always claim the highest skills you legitimately can, as
demonstrated by your past performance.
As this diagram makes clear, within each family there are simple
skills, and there are higher, or more complex skills above them; so
these can be diagrammed as inverted pyramids, with the simpler skills
at the bottom, and the more complex ones in order above them, for
data or people or things.
Incidentally, as a general rule—to which there are exceptions—
each higher skill requires you to be able also to do all those skills
listed below it. So of course you can claim those, as well. But you
want to especially emphasize the highest skill you legitimately can,
on each pyramid, demonstrated by yourself at work or at play in the
past.
3. The higher your transferable skills, the more freedom you will
have on the job.
As you can see from the side arrows in the diagram, simpler skills
can be, and usually are, heavily prescribed (by the employer), so if
you claim only the simpler skills, you will have to “fit in”—following
the instructions of your supervisor, and doing exactly what you are
told to do. The higher the skills you can legitimately claim, the more
you will be given discretion to carve out the job the way you want to
—so that it truly fits you.
4. The higher your transferable skills, the less competition you will
face for whatever job you are seeking, because jobs that use such
skills will rarely be advertised through normal channels.
Not for you the way of classified ads, resumes, and agencies. No, if
you can legitimately claim higher skills, then to find such jobs you
should follow the step-by-step process I will be describing in the next
chapter.
The essence of this approach to job-hunting or career-changing is
that once you have identified your favorite transferable skills, and
your favorite special knowledges, you may then approach any
organization that interests you, whether they have a known vacancy
or not. Naturally, whatever places you visit—and particularly those
that have not advertised any vacancy—you will find far fewer job-
hunters that you have to compete with.
In fact, if the employers you visit happen to like you well enough,
they may be willing to create for you a job that does not presently
exist. In which case, you will be competing with no one, since you will
be the sole applicant for that newly created job. As I mentioned
earlier, while this doesn’t happen all the time, it is astounding to me
how many times it does happen. The reason it does is that the
employers often have been thinking about creating a new job within
their organization, for quite some time—but with this and that, they
just have never gotten around to doing it. Until you walked in.
Then they decided they didn’t want to let you get away, since good
employees are as hard to find as good employers. And they suddenly
remember that job they have been thinking about creating for many
weeks or months, now. So they dust off their intention, create the job
on the spot, and offer it to you! And if that new job is not only what
they need, but is exactly what you were looking for, then you have a
dream job. Match-match. Win-win.
From our country’s perspective, it is also interesting to note this:
by this job-hunting initiative of yours, you have helped accelerate the
creation of more jobs in your country, which is so much on
everybody’s mind here as we go deeper into the 21st Century. How
nice to help your country, as well as yourself!
5. Don’t confuse transferable skills with traits.
Functional/transferable skills are often confused with traits,
temperaments, or type. We often think that transferable skills are such
things as: has lots of energy, gives attention to details, gets along well
with people, shows determination, works well under pressure, is
sympathetic, intuitive, persistent, dynamic, dependable, etc. These are
not functional/transferable skills, but traits, self-management skills, or
the style with which you do your transferable skills.
For example, let’s assume that one of your traits is “gives attention
to details.” And let’s suppose that one of your transferable skills is
“conducting research.” In that case “gives attention to details”
describes the manner or style with which you conduct research.
More about this, later in this petal.
Petal Three, Worksheet #1
A SKILLS CHART: ANALYZING SEVEN STORIES WHEN YOU
WERE ENJOYING YOURSELF
Now that you know what transferable skills technically are, the problem
that awaits you now, is figuring out your own. If you are one of the few
lucky people who already know what your transferable skills are, blessed
are you. Write them down, and put them in the order of preference, for
you, on the Flower Diagram (this page).
If, however, you don’t know what your skills are (and 95% of all
workers don’t), then you will need some help. Fortunately, there is an
exercise to help.
It involves the following steps.
1. Write One Story About Some Episode in Your Life (The First of
Seven)
Yes, I know, I know. You can’t do this exercise because you don’t like to
write. Writers are a very rare breed. That’s what thousands of job-hunters
have told me, over the years. And for years I kind of believed them—until
“texting” came along. Let’s face it: we human beings are “a writing
people,” and we only need a topic we have a real passion for, or interest in
—such as your life—for the writing genie to spring forth from within each
of us, pen or keyboard in hand.
So, call the Seven Stories from your life that you’re about to write your
personal offline blog, if you prefer. But start writing. Please.
If you are finding it difficult to come up with seven stories, it may
help you to know how others chose one or more of their stories:3
“As I look back, I realize I chose a story that:
 Is somehow abnormal or inconsistent with the rest of my life
 Reveals my skills in a public way
 Is in a field (such as leisure, learning, etc.) far removed from my
work
 I remembered through or because of its outcome
 Represented a challenge/gave me pride because it was something:
I previously could not do
My friends could not do
I was not supposed to be able to do
Only my father/mother could do, I thought
Only authorized/trained experts were supposed to be able to do
Somebody told me I could not do
My peers did not do/could not do
The best/brilliant/famous could or could not do
I did not have the right degree/training to do
People of the opposite sex usually do
 I would like to do again:
In a similar/different setting
With similar/different people
For free for a change/for money for a change
 Excited me because:
I never did it before
It was forbidden
I took a physical risk
I was taking a financial risk
No one had ever done it before
It demanded a long and persistent (physical/mental) effort
It made me even with someone
 I loved doing because:
I kind of like this sort of thing
The people involved were extremely nice
It did not cost me anything
 Will support/justify the professional goals I have already chosen”
(Don’t forget to look for skills that you use outside of work, such
as those you use, or develop, playing video games (strategic
planning, navigating changing environments, active listening,
communicating, collaborating, etc.). Not only are these useful in
various jobs and fields; but in and of themselves, video game skills
can get you a scholarship to college—at least at Robert Morris
University in Illinois, it can.) If you absolutely can’t think of any
experiences you’ve had where you enjoyed yourself, and
accomplished something, then try this: describe the seven most
enjoyable jobs that you’ve had; or seven roles you’ve had so far in
your life, such as: wife, mother, cook, homemaker, volunteer in the
community, citizen, dressmaker, student, etc. Tell us something you
did or accomplished, in each role.
Okay, the next step is actually writing. Here is one person’s first story:
A number of years ago, I wanted to be able to take a summer
trip with my wife and four children. I had a very limited
budget, and could not afford to put my family up in motels. I
decided to rig our station wagon as a camper.
First I went to the library to get some books on campers. I
read those books. Next I designed a plan of what I had to
build, so that I could outfit the inside of the station wagon, as
well as topside. Then I went and purchased the necessary
wood. On weekends, over a period of six weeks, I first
constructed, in my driveway, the shell for the “second story”
on my station wagon. Then I cut doors, windows, and placed a
six-drawer bureau within that shell. I mounted it on top of the
wagon, and pinioned it in place by driving two-by-fours under
the station wagon’s rack on top. I then outfitted the inside of
the station wagon, back in the wheel-well, with a table and a
bench on either side, that I made.
The result was a complete homemade camper, which I put
together when we were about to start our trip, and then
disassembled after we got back home. When we went on our
summer trip, we were able to be on the road for four weeks,
yet stayed within our budget, since we didn’t have to stay at
motels. I estimate I saved $1,900 on motel bills, during that
summer’s vacation.
As illustrated with this story, each story you write should have the
following parts:
1. Your goal: what you wanted to accomplish: “I wanted to be able to
take a summer trip with my wife and four children.”
2. Some kind of hurdle, obstacle, or constraint that you faced (self-
imposed or otherwise): “I had a very limited budget, and could not
afford to put my family up in motels.”
3. A description of what you did, step by step (how you set about to
ultimately achieve your goal, above, in spite of this hurdle or
constraint): “I decided to rig our station wagon as a camper. First I
went to the library to get some books on campers. I read those books.
Next I designed a plan of what I had to build, so that I could outfit the
inside of the station wagon, as well as topside. Then I went and
purchased the necessary wood. On weekends, over a period of six
weeks, I…” etc., etc.
4. A description of the outcome or result: “When we went on our
summer trip, we were able to be on the road for four weeks, yet
stayed within our budget, since we didn’t have to stay at motels.”
5. Any measurable/quantifiable statement of that outcome, that you
can think of: “I estimate I saved $1,900 on motel bills, during that
summer’s vacation.”
Now write your story, using the sample as a guide.
Don’t pick a story where you achieved something big, like: “how I got
my college degree over a period of ten years.” At least to begin with, write
a story about some brief episode or task you accomplished, and you had
fun!
Do not try to be too brief. This isn’t Twitter.
2. Analyze Your First Story, Using Our Skills Grid, to See What
Transferable Skills You Used
Above the number 1 on the next page, write a brief title for your first story.
Then work your way down the column below that number 1, asking
yourself in each case: “Did I use this skill in this story?”
If the answer is “Yes,” color in the little square for that skill, in that
column, with a red pen or whatever.
Work your way through the entire Parachute Skills Grid that way, with
your first story.
THE PARACHUTE SKILLS GRID
Copyright © 2014 Richard N. Bolles. Not to be reproduced without written permission.
Click here to download a PDF of The Parachute Skills Grid.
3. Write Six Other Stories, and Analyze Them for Transferable Skills
Voilà! You are done with Story #1. However, “one swallow doth not a
summer make,” so the fact that you used certain skills in this first story
doesn’t tell you much. You have to keep writing stories—seven is the
ideal, five is the minimum to be of any use—because what you are looking
for is patterns—transferable skills that keep reappearing in story after
story. They keep reappearing because they are your favorites (assuming
you chose stories where you were really enjoying yourself).
So, write your Story #2, from any period in your life, analyze it using
our skills grid, etc., etc. And keep this process up, until you have written,
and analyzed, all your stories. A weekend should do it! In a weekend, you
can inventory your past sufficiently so that you have a good picture of the
kind of work you would love to be doing in the future. (You can, of course,
stretch the inventory over a number of weeks, maybe doing an hour or two
one night a week, if you prefer. It’s up to you as to how fast you do it.)
4. Patterns and Priorities
Okay, when you’ve finished this whole inventory, for all seven of your
accomplishments/achievements/jobs/roles or whatever, you want to look
down your completed skills grid to discover any PATTERNS or
PRIORITIES.
a. Patterns, because it isn’t a matter of whether you used a skill once
only, but rather whether you used it again and again. “Once” proves
nothing; “again and again” is very convincing.
b. Priorities (that is, which skills are most important to you), because as
we saw earlier, the job you eventually choose may not be able to use
all of your skills. You need to know what you are willing to trade off,
and what you are not. This requires that you know which skills, or
family of skills, are most important to you.
So, after finishing your seven stories (or if you’re in a hurry, at least
five), look through that Skills Grid, and now guess which might be your
top ten favorite skills. These should be your best guesses, and they should
be about your favorite skills: not the ones you think the job-market will
like the best, but the ones you enjoy using the most.
At this point, now that you’ve guessed your top ten, you want to be able
to prioritize those ten in exact order of priority. Run your guesses through
the Prioritizing Grid on this page and when you’re done with that grid’s
Section D, copy the top ten onto the building blocks diagram below, as
well as onto your Favorite Transferable Skills petal, on this page.
The Virtue of Depicting Your Transferable Skills in Terms of
Building Blocks: Suppose it turned out that these were my top ten favorite
skills: analyze, teach, research, write, diagnose, synthesize, entertain,
classify, convey warmth, lead, motivate. (I might prefer to put these verbs
in their gerund form (ending in –ing): analyzing, teaching, researching,
writing, diagnosing, synthesizing, entertaining, classifying, conveying
warmth, leading, motivating.)
If I then enter these terms onto a diagram of Building Blocks in the
order of my personal priority, the top one defines the kind of job or career
I’m looking for. If I put “analyzing” in the top block, I might seek a job as
an analyst. But, if instead I move “teaching” to the top block, then I might
seek 
a 
job 
as 
a 
teacher. 
And 
so 
on, 
with
“researching,” “writing,” “diagnosing,” etc. I can choose between several
goals.
PRIORITIZING GRID FOR 10 ITEMS OR LESS
Copyright © 2014 by Richard N. Bolles. All rights reserved.
Click here to download a PDF of the Prioritizing Grid for 10 Items or Less.
5. Now Let’s Turn to Your Self-Management Skills or Traits
A CHECKLIST OF MY STRONGEST TRAITS
I am very…
 Accurate
 Achievement-oriented
 Adaptable
 Adept
 Adept at having fun
 Adventuresome
 Alert
 Appreciative
 Assertive
 Astute
 Authoritative
 Calm
 Cautious
 Charismatic
 Competent
 Consistent
 Contagious in my enthusiasm
 Cooperative
 Courageous
 Creative
 Decisive
 Deliberate
 Dependable/have dependability
 Diligent
 Diplomatic
 Discreet
 Driving
 Dynamic
 Effective
 Energetic
 Enthusiastic
 Exceptional
 Exhaustive
 Experienced
 Expert
 Extremely economical
 Firm
 Flexible
 Human-oriented
 Impulsive
 Independent
 Innovative
 Knowledgeable
 Loyal
 Methodical
 Objective
 Open-minded
 Outgoing
 Outstanding
 Patient
 Penetrating
 Perceptive
 Persevering
 Persistent
 Pioneering
 Practical
 Professional
 Protective
 Punctual
 Quick/work quickly
 Rational
 Realistic
 Reliable
 Resourceful
 Responsible
 Responsive
 Safeguarding
 Self-motivated
 Self-reliant
 Sensitive
 Sophisticated, very sophisticated
 Strong
 Supportive
 Tactful
 Thorough
 Unique
 Unusual
 Versatile
 Vigorous
Click here to download a PDF of the My Strongest Traits Checklist.
Now, let’s go a little deeper.
In general, your self-management skills describe:
How you deal with time, and promptness.
How you deal with people and emotions.
How you deal with authority, and being told what to do at your job.
How you deal with supervision, and being told how to do your job.
How you deal with impulse vs. self-discipline, within yourself.
How you deal with initiative vs. response, within yourself.
How you deal with crises or problems.
If you want to know what your traits or self-management skills are,
popular tests such as the MBTI (the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator) measure
that sort of thing.
If you have access to the Internet, there are clues, at least, about your
traits or “type”:
Working Out Your Myers-Briggs Type
www.​teamtechnology.​co.​uk/​tt/​t-articl/​mb-simpl.​htm
An informative article about the Myers-Briggs
The 16 Personality Types
www.​personalitypage.​com/​high-level.​html
A helpful site about Myers types
What Is Your Myers-Briggs Personality Type?
www.​personalitypathways.​com/​type_inventory.​html
www.​personalitypathways.​com
Another article about personality types; also, there’s a Myers-Briggs
Applications page, with links to test resources
Myers-Briggs Foundation home page
www.​myersbriggs.​org
The official website of the Foundation; lots of testing resources
Human Metrics Test (Jung Typology)
www.​humanmetrics.​com/​cgi-win/​JTypes2.​asp
Free test, loosely based on the Myers-Briggs
Myers-Briggs Type Indicator Online
https://​www.mbtionline.com/​TaketheMBTI
On this site you can find the official Myers-Briggs test, $49.95
The Keirsey Temperament Sorter
http://keirsey.​com
Free test, similar to the Myers-Briggs
You can use your self-management skills to flesh out each of your
favorite transferable skills so that you are able to describe each of your
talents or skills with more than just a one-word verb or gerund.
Let’s take organizing as our example. You tell us proudly: “I’m good at
organizing.” That’s a fine start at defining your skills, but unfortunately it
doesn’t yet tell us much. Organizing WHAT? People, as at a party? Nuts
and bolts, as on a workbench? Or lots of information, as on a computer?
These are three entirely different skills. The one word organizing doesn’t
tell us which one is yours.
So, please look at your favorite transferable skills, and ask yourself if
you want to flesh out any of them with an object—some kind of
Data/Information, or some kind of People, or some kind of Thing—plus a
self-management skill, or trait or style (adverb or adjective).
Why is the trait important here? Well, “I’m good at organizing
information painstakingly and logically” and “I’m good at organizing
information in a flash, by intuition,” are two entirely different skills. The
difference between them is spelled out not in the verb, nor in the object,
but in the adjectival or adverbial phrase there at the end. So, expand the
definition of any of your ten favorite skills that you choose, in the fashion I
have just described.
When you are face-to-face with a person-who-has-the-power-to-hire-
you, you want to be able to explain what makes you different from
nineteen other people who can basically do the same thing that you can do.
It is often the self-management skill, the trait, the adjective or adverb that
will save your life, during that explanation.
Now, on to the fourth side of Who You Are.
I Am a Person Who…
HAS A CERTAIN GOAL, PURPOSE, OR MISSION
IN LIFE
My Purpose or Sense of Mission for My Life
Goal in Filling Out This Petal: To know the moral compass or spiritual values
by which you want to guide your life. The most victorious life is one that is
dedicated to some larger cause or mission.
What You Are Looking For: Some definition of the purpose and mission of
your life. This may help you pick out the kinds of organizations or companies
you’d like to work for, if you find ones that are serving the same mission as
yours.
Form of the Entries on Your Petal: A description of what sphere of life you
want to make better, with some attending details.
Example of a Good Petal: My purpose in life is to help the human spirit. I want
there to be more faith, more compassion, more forgiveness, in families, because I
have lived.
Example of a Bad Petal: More justice in the world.
Why Bad: An admirable goal, but it is too vague. Doesn’t give you any
guidance as to what kind of justice to look for.
You need to dream about the broad outcome of your life, and not just this
year’s job-search. What kind of footprint do you want to leave on this
Earth, after your journey here is done? Figure that out, and you’re well on
your way to defining your life as having purpose and a mission. As John L.
Holland famously said, “We need to look further down the road than just
headlight range at night.” The road is the road of Life.
Petal Four, Worksheet #1
DIAGRAM: THE NINE SPHERES OF PURPOSE OR MISSION
Generally speaking, purpose breaks down into nine spheres—
corresponding to our nature. As you look these over on the diagram on this
page, the question is, which one appeals to you the most? Time for some
hard thinking (ouch!). So, study this diagram slowly. Take time to ponder
and think.
Now, let’s look at these in more detail. Consider these as spheres,
environments, or arenas, in which you like to play.
1. The Sphere of The Senses. The question is: When you have finished
your life here on Earth, do you want there to be more beauty in the
world, because you were here? If so, what kind of beauty entrances
you? Is it art, music, flowers, photography, painting, staging, crafts,
clothing, jewelry, or what? If this is your main purpose in life, then
write one paragraph about it.
2. The Sphere of The Body. The question is: When you have finished
your life here on Earth, do you want there to be more wholeness,
fitness, or health in the world, more binding up of the body’s wounds
and strength, more feeding of the hungry, and clothing of the poor,
because you were here? What issue in particular? If this is your main
purpose in life, then write one paragraph about it.
3. The Sphere of Our Possessions. The question is: Is your major
concern the often false love of possessions in this world? When you
have finished your life here on Earth, do you want there to be better
stewardship of what we possess—as individuals, as a community, as a
nation—in the world, because you were here? Do you want to see
simplicity, quality (rather than quantity), and a broader emphasis on
the word “enough,” rather than on the words “more, more”? If so, in
what areas of human life in particular? If this is your main purpose in
life, then write one paragraph about it.
4. The Sphere of The Will or Conscience. The question is: When you
have finished your life here on Earth, do you want there to be more
morality, more justice, more righteousness, more honesty in the
world, because you were here? In what areas of human life or
history, in particular? And in what geographical area? If this is your
main purpose in life, then write one paragraph about it.
The Purpose for My Life: I Want There to Be More…(choose)
You may pick more than one. Write a one-page essay. Summarize it on the Goal,
Purpose, or Mission in Life petal, this page.
Click here to download a PDF of The Purpose for My Life Diagram.
5.  The Sphere of The Heart. The question is: When you have finished
your life here on Earth, do you want there to be more love and
compassion in the world, because you were here? Love or
compassion for whom? Or for what? If this is your main purpose in
life, then write one paragraph about it.
6. The Sphere of Entertainment. The question is: When you have
finished your life here on Earth, do you want there to be more
lightening of people’s loads, more giving them perspective, more
helping them to forget their cares for a spell, do you want there to be
more laughter in the world, and joy, because you were here? If so,
what particular kind of entertainment do you want to contribute to the
world? If this is your main purpose in life, then write one paragraph
about it.
7. The Sphere of The Earth. The question is: Is the planet on which we
stand, your major concern? When you have finished your life here on
Earth, do you want there to be better protection of this fragile planet,
more exploration of the world or the universe—exploration, not
exploitation—more dealing with its problems and its energy, because
you were here? If so, which problems or challenges in particular,
draw your heart and soul? If this is your main purpose in life, then
write one paragraph about it.
8. The Sphere of The Spirit. The question is: When you have finished
your life here on Earth, do you want there to be more spirituality in
the world, more faith, more compassion, more forgiveness, more love
for God and the human family in all its diversity, because you were
here? If so, with what ages, people, or with what parts of human life?
If this is You, then your sense of purpose is pointing you toward the
sphere of the spirit, or (if you prefer) The Kingdom of God. If this is
your main purpose in life, then write one paragraph about it.
9. The Sphere of The Mind. The question is: When you have finished
your life here on Earth, do you want there to be more knowledge,
truth, or clarity in the world, because you were here? Knowledge,
truth, or clarity concerning what in particular? If this is your main
purpose in life, then write one paragraph about it.
In sum, remember that all of these are worthwhile purposes and missions,
all of these are necessary and needed, in this world. The question is, which
one in particular draws you to it, the most? Which one do you most want
to lend your brain, your energies, your skills and gifts, your life, to serve,
while you are here on this Earth?4
When you are done, enter a summary paragraph of what you have
decided your purpose or mission is, on the Goal, Purpose, or Mission in
Life petal, on this page.
Petal Four, Worksheet #2
ESSAY: YOUR PHILOSOPY ABOUT LIFE
There are two challenges you may run into, with this Petal.
First Challenge: You just come up empty on this exercise, despite hard
thinking. No harm done. If you want an answer, just keep the question on
the back burner of your mind; eventually some insight is going to break
through. Tomorrow, next week, next month, or a year from now. Be
patient with yourself.
Second Challenge: This subject doesn’t grab you at all. Okay. Then
instead of writing a statement of purpose or mission for your life, you can
write instead a statement outlining what you think about life: why are we
here, why are You here, and so on. This is often called “Your Philosophy
of Life.”
In writing a philosophy of life, it should be no more than two pages,
single spaced, and can be less; it should address whichever of the elements
listed below you think are most important; pick and choose. You do not
have to write about all of them. In most cases, you will only need two or
three sentences about each element you choose to comment on.
Beauty: what kind of beauty stirs you, what the function of beauty is
in the world
Behavior: how you think we should behave in this world
Beliefs: what your strongest beliefs are
Celebration: how you like to play or celebrate, in life
Choice: what its nature and importance is
Community: what your concept is about belonging to each other;
what you think our responsibility is to each other
Compassion: what you think about its importance and use
Confusion: how you live with it, and deal with it
Death: what you think about it and what you think happens after it
Events: what you think makes things happen, how you explain why
they happen
Free will: whether we are “predetermined” or have free will
God: see Supreme Being
Happiness: what makes for the truest human happiness
Heroes and heroines: who yours are, and why
Human: what you think is important about being human, what you
think is our function
Love: what you think about its nature and importance, along with all
its related words: compassion, forgiveness, grace
Moral issues: which ones you believe are the most important for us
to pay attention to, wrestle with, help solve
Paradox: what your attitude is toward its presence in life
Purpose: why we are here, what life is all about
Reality: what you think is its nature, and components
Self: deciding whether physical self is the limit of your being,
deciding what trust-in-self means
Spirituality: what its place is in human life, how we should treat it
Stewardship: what we should do with God’s gifts to us
Supreme Being: your concept of, and what you think holds the
universe together
Truth: what you think about it, which truths are most important
Uniqueness: what you think makes each of us unique
Values: what you think about ourselves, what you think about the
world, prioritized as to what matters most (to you)
When you are done writing, put a summary paragraph on Petal #4, your
Goal, Purpose, or Mission in Life, on this page.
Now, on to another side of Who You Are.
I Am a Person Who…
ALREADY HAS (AND LOVES) THESE
PARTICULAR KNOWLEDGES (OR INTERESTS)
My Favorite Knowledges, Interests, Subjects
Goal in Filling Out This Petal: To summarize all that you stored in your brain.
Required: From your past, subjects you already know a lot about, and enjoy
talking about. Optional: For your future, what you would like to learn.
What You Are Looking For: Some guidance as to what field you would most
enjoy working in.
Form of the Entries on Your Petal: Basically, they will all turn out to be nouns,
but see below.
Example of a Good Petal: Graphic design, data analysis, mathematics, how to
repair a car, video games, cooking, music, principles of mechanical engineering,
how to run an organization, Chinese, CATIA (Computer Aided Three-
dimensional Interactive Application), etc.
Example of a Bad Petal: Prompt, thorough, analyzing, persistent,
communicating.
Why Bad: Knowledges are always nouns. The words in the bad example
above are not. In case you’re curious, they are, in order: a trait (adjective), a
trait (adjective), a transferable skill (verb), a trait (adjective), and a transferable
skill (verb). All in all, that is one mixed bag! All are important, but you want
only knowledges on this particular petal.
As mentioned in Petal #3, there are three things traditionally called skills:
knowledges, as here; functions, also known as transferable skills; and
traits or self-management skills. And as we saw there, a general rule
throughout this inventory is that knowledges are nouns; transferable skills
are verbs; and traits are adjectives or adverbs. If it helps knowing that,
great; if not, forget it! Our overarching principle throughout this book is
that if a generalization, or metaphor, or example, helps you, use it. But if it
just confuses you, then ignore it!!!
On this Petal #5, you will eventually write your final results—your
Favorite Knowledges/Fields of Interest, prioritized in the order of
importance to you—on this page.
Petal Five, Worksheet #1
Q&A: TEN SHORTCUTS FOR IDENTIFYING YOUR FAVORITE
KNOWLEDGES, SUBJECTS, FIELDS, OR INTERESTS (WHATEVER
YOU WISH TO CALL THEM)
On a blank sheet of paper jot down your answers to any or all of these ten
shortcuts:
1. What are your favorite hobbies or fields where you like to spend a lot
of your time? (Computers? Gardening? Spanish? Law? Physics?
Department stores? Hospitals? etc., etc.) Start a list.
2. What do you love to talk about? Ask yourself: if you were stuck on a
desert island with a person who only had the capacity to speak on a
few subjects, what would you pray those subjects were?
If you were at a get-together, talking with someone who was
covering two of your favorite subjects at once, which way would you
hope the conversation would go? Toward which subject?
If you could talk about something with some world expert, all day
long, day after day, what would that subject or field of interest be?
Add any ideas that these questions spark in you, to your list.
3. What magazine articles do you love to read? I mean, what subjects?
You get really interested when you see a magazine article that deals
with…what subject? Add any ideas to your list.
4. What newspaper articles do you love to read? You get really
interested when you see a newspaper special report that deals with…
what subject? Add any ideas, here, to your list.
5. If you’re browsing in a bookstore, what sections of the bookstore do
you tend to gravitate toward? What subjects there do you find really
fascinating? Add any ideas, here, to your list.
6. What sites on the Internet (if you have Internet access) do you tend to
gravitate toward? What subjects do these sites deal with? Do any of
these really fascinate you? Add any ideas, here, to your list.
7. If you watch TV, and it’s a “game show,” which categories would
you pick? If it’s an educational program, what kinds of subjects do
you stop and watch? Add them to your list.
8. When you look at a catalog of courses that you could take in your
town or city (or on TV), which subjects really interest you? Add any
ideas, here, to your list.
9. If you could write a book, and it wasn’t about your own life or
somebody else’s, what would be the subject of the book? Add it to
your list.
10. There are moments, in most of our lives, when we are so engrossed in
a task, that we lose all track of time. (Someone has to remind us that
it’s time for supper, or whatever.) If this ever happens to you, what
task, what subject, so absorbs your attention that you lose all track of
time? Add it to your list.5
Petal Five, Worksheet #2
CHART OF ALL THE THINGS YOU’VE LEARNED: THE
FISHERMAN’S NET
You may want to copy the following chart on to a larger piece of paper,
leaving much more space beneath the title for each of the four parts, before
you start filling it in.
CHART: THE FISHERMAN’S NET
Click here to download a PDF of The Fisherman's Net Chart.
This chart is like a commercial fisherman’s net, where you want to
cast it into the sea in order to capture the largest haul of fish possible, and
only later do you pick out the best from your haul. But we start big.
How to fill out this chart? Well, that’s your choice. You may want to fill
this out at one sitting; or you may prefer to keep it in your pocket and jot
down anything that occurs to you over a period of two or three weeks:
every bright idea, every hunch, every remembered dream, every intuition
that pops up. This is an important petal—very important—as it may help
you unearth a field or fields where you would really like to work. So it’s
worth spending some time on.
Now here are some hints to help you fill in the first three parts of the
chart.
PART 1. WHAT YOU KNOW FROM YOUR PREVIOUS JOBS
If you’ve been out there in the world of work for some time, you’ve
probably learned a lot of things that you now just take for granted. “Of
course I know that!” But such knowledges may be important, in and of
themselves, or they may point you to something important, down the line.
So don’t be afraid to really get detailed.
Examples: It can be things like: bookkeeping, handling applications,
credit collection of overdue accounts, hiring, international business,
management, marketing, sales, merchandising, packaging, policy
development, 
problem 
solving, 
troubleshooting, 
public 
speaking,
recruiting, conference planning, systems analysis, the culture of other
countries, other languages, government contract procedures, and so on.
© ScienceCartoonsPlus.​com
Think of each job you’ve ever held, and then for each job jot down any
system or procedure that you learned there. For example: “Worked in a
warehouse: learned how to use a forklift and crane, inventory control,
logistics automation software, warehouse management systems, JIT (just
in time) techniques, teamwork principles, and how to supervise
employees.”
Or, “Worked at a fast food place: learned how to prepare and serve
food, how to wait on customers, how to make change, how to deal with
complaints, how to train new employees, etc.”
PART 2. WHAT YOU KNOW, OUTSIDE OF WORK
Jot down any bodies of knowledge that you picked up on your own just
because the subject fascinated you, such as: antiques, gardening, cooking,
budgeting, decorating, photography, crafts, spirituality, sports, camping,
travel, repairing things, flea markets, scrapbooking, sewing, art
appreciation at museums, how to run or work in a volunteer organization,
and so on.
a. Also think of anything you learned in high school (or college) that
you prize knowing today: keyboarding? Chinese? accounting?
geography? Is this knowledge important to you? Figure that out later;
for now, your goal is to just cast as wide a net as possible.
b. Think of anything you learned at training seminars, workshops,
conferences, and so on, possibly in connection with a job you had at
the time. Or something you decided to attend on your own. Jot it all
down. Is this knowledge important to you? Figure that out later; for
now, your goal is to just cast as wide a net as possible.
c. Think of anything you studied at home, via online courses, mobile
apps, tape programs (likely played in your car while commuting),
PBS television programs, etc. Is this knowledge important to you?
Figure that out later; for now, your goal is to just cast as wide a net as
possible. Jot it all down.
d. Think of anything you learned out there in the world, such as how to
assemble a flash mob, how to organize a protest, how to fund-raise
for a particular cause, how to run a marathon, how to repair a toilet,
etc. Is this knowledge important to you? Figure that out later; for
now, your goal is to just cast as wide a net as possible. Jot it all down,
in the second section of the chart.
PART 3. WHAT FIELDS, CAREERS, OR INDUSTRIES SOUND
INTERESTING TO YOU
Broadly speaking, the workplace consists of the following six branches:
agriculture, manufacturing, information, technology, finance, and services.
Any ideas about which of these six is most attractive to you, right off the
bat? If so, jot your answer down, in the third section of the chart.
In order to drill down further into these six, your best bet is the
government’s O*Net Online (www.​onetonline.​org). Note that is .org, not
.com.
O*Net Online has various lists of career clusters or industries or job
families. Below is a mashup of these. Please read over the following list,
and copy down any of these that you want to explore further (multiple
choices preferred, here, in order to have alternatives and therefore hope)
in the third section of the chart.
 Accommodation and Food Services
 Administrative and Support Services
 Agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources
 Architecture, Engineering, and Construction
 Arts, Audio/Video Technology, and Communications
 Business, Operations, Management, and Administration
 Community and Social Service
 Computer and Mathematical
 Design, Entertainment, Sports, and Media
 Distribution and Logistics
 Education, Training, and Library
 Entertainment and Recreation
 Farming, Forestry, Fishing, and Hunting
 Finance and Insurance
 Food Preparation and Serving
 Government and Public Administration
 Green Industries or Jobs
 Healthcare, Health Science, and Social Assistance
 Hospitality and Tourism
 Human Services
 Information and Information Technology
 Law, Public Safety, Corrections, and Security
 Life, Physical, and Social Sciences
 Management of Companies and Enterprises
 Manufacturing
 Marketing, Sales, and Service
 Military Related
 Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction
 Personal Care and Service
 Production
 Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services
 Protective Services
 Real Estate, Rental, and Leasing
 Religion, Faith, and Related
 Retail Trade, Sales, and Related
 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics
 Self-Employment
 Transportation, Warehousing, and Material Moving
 Utilities
Now, the nice thing about O*Net Online is that once you have chosen
anything on the list above, the site has drop-down menus which allow you
to go deeper into each career cluster, industry, or job family that you have
checked off. It drills down to career pathways, and then drills down
further to individual occupations, and then drills down still further to
tasks, tools, technologies, knowledges, skills, abilities, work activities,
education, interests, work styles, work values, related occupations, and
salary.
The only limitation here, as you will see in our chapter 11, “The Five
Ways to Choose/Change Careers,” is that O*Net only does this for about
900 occupations. Its immediate predecessor, the D.O.T., had 12,741
occupations listed. So, O*Net does not offer a complete map of the job-
market by any means.
And even for those occupations that are listed in O*Net, remember:
jobs, industries, and careers are mortal; they are born, they grow, they
mature, they flourish, then decline and ultimately die. Sometimes it takes
centuries, sometimes merely decades, sometimes even sooner than that.
But, eventually, most jobs, industries, and careers are mortal. It doesn’t
matter if they were killed off by China or Mexico, or other supposed
villains. They would have died anyway. Eventually.
We are mortal. So are jobs. Understand that truth and you will avoid a
life of bitterness and blame. In today’s world, you must always have a plan
B up your sleeves.
Petal Five, Worksheet #3
PRIORITIZING YOUR KNOWLEDGES: FAVORITE SUBJECTS
MATRIX
YOUR FAVORITE SUBJECTS MATRIX
Okay, now you’ve completed worksheet #2. You’ve cast as wide a
commercial fisherman’s net—so to speak—as possible, using Worksheet
#1 and Worksheet #2 for this Petal. What now?
Well, it’s time to pick the best of your haul, as we indicated earlier.
Time to look it all over, and decide which knowledges, subjects, or
interests are your favorites. Time for Prioritizing. But we’re going to use a
different kind of Prioritizing aid here: not our familiar Grid, but four
boxes/compartments/“bins” 
along 
the 
axes 
of 
“Expertise” 
and
“Enthusiasm.” In other words, a matrix (this page).
You should copy this matrix onto a much larger piece of paper, before
you begin.
Then copy everything—everything—you have written down on
Worksheet #1 (Ten Shortcuts) and Worksheet #2 (the Chart) and decide
which of the four bins it belongs in, as you weigh your expertise (or lack
of it) and your enthusiasm (or lack of it) with that particular subject or
knowledge.
(You don’t have to copy anything into bin #4, if you don’t want to.
Except if you want bin #4 to stand there, filled with subjects and
knowledges that you don’t care about—as a cautionary tale. I’ll state the
obvious: any knowledge that you have neither any expertise in nor any
enthusiasm for, is a knowledge you will want to avoid at all costs in a
future job, if it’s up to you. And it is.)
Once you have finished copying every knowledge from Exercises #1
and #2 into one of these bins, go back and study only what you put into bin
#1: High Expertise, High Enthusiasm. Copy what you consider to be your
top four or five favorites from that bin—use a Prioritizing Grid if you need
to—and maybe, just maybe, one item from bin #2, and put them on Petal
#5, found on this page.
Bueno! Your Favorite Subjects, Knowledges, Fields, Interests—
whatever you want to call them—is done. Now you’re ready to move on,
to consider the sixth side of Who You Are.
I Am a Person Who…
PREFERS A CERTAIN LEVEL OF
RESPONSIBILITY AND SALARY
My Preferred Level of Responsibility and Salary
Goal in Filling Out This Petal: To gain a realistic picture of how much money
you will need to earn, or want to earn, at whatever job you find.
What You Are Looking For: A range, because most employers are thinking in
terms of a range, too. When you negotiate salary, as you will almost certainly
have to, if the employer is of any significant size, you want the bottom of your
range to be near the top of theirs.
Form of the Entries on Your Petal: Total dollars needed, weekly, monthly, or
annually. Stated in thousands (symbol: K).
Example of a Good Petal: $75K to $85K
Example of a Bad Petal: $300K
Why Bad: Well, it’s not a range, which it needs to be; and it’s too high unless
you state on the petal the reason why such a high income is expected, and—
more importantly—justified.
Petal Six, Introduction
A CRASH COURSE ABOUT MONEY
Money is important. Or else we’re reduced to bitcoins or to barter, for our
food, clothing, and shelter. So, when we’re out of work, unless we have
huge amounts of money in our savings account or investments, we are
inevitably thinking: “What am I going to do, so that I have enough money
to put food on the table, clothes on my back, and a roof over our heads for
myself—and for my family or partner (if I have one)?”
Happiness is important, too. So, we may find ourselves thinking: “How
much do I really need to be earning, for me to be truly happy with my
life?”
Are these two worries—money and happiness—related? Can money
buy happiness?
Partly, it turns out. Partly. A study, published in 2010, of the responses
of 450,000 people in the U.S. to a daily survey, found that the less money
they made, the more unhappy they tended to be, day after day.6 No
surprise, there. And, obviously, the more money they made, measured in
terms of percentage improvement, the happier they tended to be, as
measured by the frequency and intensity of moments of smiling, laughter,
affection, and joy all day long, vs. moments of sadness, worry, and stress.
So, money does buy happiness. But only up to a point. That point was
found to be around $75,000 annual income (at the end of 2011, median
household income was $51,4137). If people made more money than
$75,000, it of course further improved their satisfaction with how their life
was going, but it did not increase their happiness. Above $75,000, they
started to report reduced ability to spend time with people they liked, to
enjoy leisure, and to savor small pleasures. Happiness depends on things
like that, and on other factors too: good health, a loving relationship,
loving friends, a feeling of competence, gaining mastery, respect, praise,
or even love, because we are really good at what we do.
So, this petal cannot be filled out all by itself. It is inextricably tied to
the other petals—most particularly, to what you love to do, and where you
love to do it.
Still, salary is something you must think out ahead of time, when you’re
contemplating your ideal job or career. Level goes hand in hand with
salary, of course. So here are a couple of questions you should be asking
yourself:
1. At what level would you like to work, in your ideal job?
Level is a matter of how much responsibility you want, in an
organization:
 Boss or CEO (this may mean you’ll have to form your own business)
 Manager or someone under the boss who carries out orders
 The head of a team
 A member of a team of equals
 One who works in tandem with one other partner
 One who works alone, either as an employee or as a consultant to an
organization, or as a one-person business
Think carefully about your answer, talk it over with your friends or
family, then enter a two- or three-word summary of your answer (for now)
on Petal #6, the Preferred Salary and Level of Responsibility, of your
Flower Diagram, this page.
2. What salary would you like to be aiming for?
Here you have to think in terms of a range, not a single figure. One way
to do this is to think of your minimum or maximum desired.
Minimum is what you would need to make, if you were just barely
“getting by.” And incidentally, you do need to know this before you go in
for a job interview with anyone (or before you form your own business,
and need to know how much profit you must make, just to survive). You
can’t survive on a negative income stream.
Maximum could be any astronomical figure you can think of, but it is
more useful here to put down the salary you realistically think you could
make, with your present competency and experience, were you working
for a real, but generous, boss. (If this maximum figure is still depressingly
low, then put down the salary you would like to be making five years from
now.)
Petal Six, Worksheet #1
A BUDGET: KEEPING TRACK OF HOW MUCH YOU DO SPEND
AND HOW MUCH YOU’D LIKE TO SPEND
Many job-hunters and career-changers want to begin by making up a
budget of what they think they will need. On the next page you will find a
simple guide to the categories you will need to think about. Figure out
what you think you will need monthly, in each category. And if you see
any categories missing, do not hesitate to add them.
Many do not want to start with a budget of how they should spend their
money. They want to start by first keeping track of how, in actual fact,
they do spend their money. You can just jot down notes at the end of each
day. But if you have access to the Internet on either your computer or
mobile device, you are in great luck. Lots of apps make this task much
easier. For example, there is Spending Tracker, Pocket Expense,
GoodBudget, and for all those who want to sync with their bank accounts,
Mint.​com.
The good news: all are simple, and all are free.
Once you figure out what you do spend, you’ll be much better able to
lay out a realistic budget of what you want to spend.
In any event, by hook or by crook, once you have your monthly budget,
it’s time to do some Math.
Multiply the total amount you need each month by 12, to get the yearly
figure.
Divide the yearly figure by 2,000, and you will be reasonably near the
minimum hourly wage that you need. Thus, if you need $3,333 per month,
multiplied by 12 that’s $40,000 a year, and then divided by 2,000, that’s
$20 an hour.
You will also want to put down the maximum salary you would like to
make (dream, dream, dream). Once you are done, enter both salary figures
—minimum and maximum—and any notes you want to add such as to
justify the maximum (you may also want to add any “nonmonetary”
rewards you seek from the Optional Exercise on this page) and add all of
this onto Petal #6, the Preferred Salary and Level of Responsibility petal,
found on this page.
MONTHLY EXPENSES
Housing
Rent or mortgage payments   $                  
Electricity/gas   $                  
Water   $                  
Phone/Internet   $                  
Garbage removal   $                  
Cleaning, maintenance, repairs8   $                  
Food
What you spend at the supermarket
and/or farmers’ market, etc.   $                  
Eating out   $                  
Clothing
Purchase of new or used clothing   $                  
Cleaning, dry cleaning, laundry   $                  
Automobile/transportation
Car payments   $                  
Gas (who knows?9)   $                  
Repairs   $                  
Public transportation (bus, train, plane)   $                  
Insurance
Car   $                  
Medical or healthcare   $                  
House and personal possessions   $                  
Life   $                  
Medical expenses
Doctors’ visits   $                  
Prescriptions   $                  
Fitness costs   $                  
Support for other family members
Child-care costs (if you have children)   $                  
Child-support (if you’re paying that)   $                  
Support for your parents (if you’re helping out)   $                  
Charity giving/tithe (to help others)   $                  
School/learning
Children’s costs (if you have children in school)   $                  
Your learning costs (adult education, job-hunting classes, etc.)
  $                  
Pet care (if you have pets)   $                  
Bills and debts (usual monthly payments)
Credit cards   $                  
Local stores   $                  
Other obligations you pay off monthly   $                  
Taxes
Federal10 (next April’s due, divided by
twelve months)   $                  
State (likewise)   $                  
Local/property (next amount due, divided by twelve months)
  $                  
Tax-help (if you ever use an accountant, or
pay a friend to help you with taxes, etc.)   $                  
Savings   $                  
Retirement (Keogh, IRA, SEP, etc.)   $                  
Amusement/discretionary spending
Movies, Netflix, etc.   $                  
Other kinds of entertainment   $                  
Reading, newspapers, magazines, books   $                  
Gifts (birthday, Christmas, etc.)   $                  
Vacations   $                  
Total Amount You Need Each Month   $                  
Click here to download a PDF of the Monthly Expenses Worksheet.
Petal Six, Worksheet #2
AN OPTIONAL EXERCISE: OTHER REWARDS BESIDES MONEY
If you do check off things on this list, arrange your answers in order of
importance to you, and then add them to the petal.
Optional Exercise
You may wish to put down other rewards, besides money, that you would hope
for, from your next job or career. These might be:
 Adventure
 Challenge
 Respect
 Influence
 Popularity
 Fame
 Power
 Intellectual stimulation from the other workers there
 A chance to be creative
 A chance to help others
 A chance to exercise leadership
 A chance to make decisions
 A chance to use your expertise
 A chance to bring others closer to God
 Other:
If you do check off things on this list, arrange your answers in order of
importance to you, and then add them to the petal.
Click here to download a PDF of the Other Rewards Besides Money Exercise.
Now, on to the seventh side of Who You Are.
I Am a Person Who…
PREFERS CERTAIN PLACES TO LIVE
My Preferred Place(s) to Live
Goal in Filling Out This Petal: To define in what part of the country or the
world you would most like to work and live, and be happiest, if you ever have a
choice. Also to resolve a conflict (should it arise) between you and your partner
as to where you want to live after you retire. Or make your next career move.
What You Are Looking For: Having a clearer picture about what you hope for,
in life. Now or later. Now, if you’re able to move and want to make a wise
decision as to where. Later, If you’re currently tied down to a particular place
because “I need to be near my kids or my ailing parents,” or whatever, in which
case this becomes a planning for the future: retirement, or earlier. It’s important
to think about the future now, because an opportunity may come along when you
least expect it, and you might pass right by it, unless you’ve given it some
thought, and instantly recognize it.
Form of the Entries on Your Petal: You can stay general (city, suburbs, rural,
up in the mountains, on the coast, or overseas); or you can get very specific if
you’re really ready to move, naming names and places—as this exercise will
teach you to do.
Example of a Good Petal: First preference: Jackson, Wyoming; Second
preference: Honolulu; Third preference: New York City.
Example of a Bad Petal: The West; a suburb; snow.
Why Bad: Too broad. Doesn’t really offer any help in making a decision. And
it isn’t prioritized, as a good petal must be.
Petal Seven, Worksheet #1
A CHART: WHAT I LIKED OR DISLIKED ABOUT PLACES I HAVE
LIVED
Directions for doing this exercise:
Copy the chart found on this page, onto a larger (11 x 17-inch) piece of
paper or cardboard, which you can obtain from any arts and crafts store or
supermarket, in your town or city. And if you are doing this exercise with
a partner, make a copy for them too, so that each of you is working on a
clean copy of your own, and can follow these instructions independently.
Now, as to how you fill out this chart:
COLUMN 1 In Column 1, you should list all the places where you have
ever lived. (If you are doing this exercise with a partner, they should
make their own list on their own worksheet.)
COLUMN 2 In Column 2, you should list all the factors you disliked
(and still do) about each place. The negative factors do not have to be
put exactly opposite the place in Column 1. The names in Column 1
exist simply as pegs on which to hang your memory.
If the same factors keep repeating, just put a check mark after the first
listing of that factor, every time it repeats.
Keep going until you have listed all the factors you disliked or hated
about each and every place you named in Column 1. Now, in effect,
throw away Column 1; discard it from your thoughts. The negative
factors were what you were after. Column 1 has served its purpose.
(As you go, if you recall some things you liked about any place, list
those factors at the bottom of the next column, Column 3.)
COLUMN 3 Look at Column 2, your list of negative factors, and in
Column 3 try to list each one’s opposite (or near opposite). For example,
“the sun never shone, there” would, in Column 3, be turned into “mostly
sunny, all year-round.” It will not always be the exact opposite. For
example, the negative factor “rains all the time” does not necessarily
translate into the positive “sunny all the time.” It might be something
like “sunny at least 200 days a year.” It’s your call. Keep going, until
every negative factor in Column 2 is turned into its opposite, a positive
factor, in Column 3. Don’t forget to note any positive factors you listed
at the bottom of Column 3, when you were working on Column 2.
COLUMN 4 In Column 4, now, list the positive factors in Column 3, in
the order of most important (to you), down to least important (to you).
For example, if you were looking at, and trying to name a new town,
city, or place where you could be happy and flourish, what is the first
thing you would look for? Would it be, good weather? or lack of crime?
or good schools? or access to cultural opportunities, such as music, art,
museums, or whatever? or would it be inexpensive housing? etc., etc.
Rank all the factors in Column 4. Use the ten-item Prioritizing Grid on
this page if you need to.
SHOW AND TELL Once done, list on a blank sheet of paper those top
ten factors, in order of importance to you, and show it to everyone you
meet for the next ten days, with the ultimate question: “Can you think of
any place that has all ten of these factors, or at least the top five?” Jot
down any and all of their suggestions on the back of the sheet. When the
ten days are up, look at the back of that sheet and circle the three places
that seem the most interesting to you. If there is only a partial overlap
between your dream factors and the places your friends and
acquaintances can come up with, make sure the overlap is in the factors
that count the most.
COLUMN 5 Now you have some names that you will want to find out
more about, so that you can eventually figure out which would be your
absolute favorite place to live, and your second, and your third, as
backups. Enter those three places in Column 5, then copy them plus
your top five geographical factors, on to Petal #7, Preferred Place(s) to
Live, on the Flower Diagram on this page.
COLUMN 6 If you are doing this with a partner, skip Column 5.
Instead, when you have finished your Column 4, look at your partner’s
Column 4, and copy it into Column 6. The numbering of your list in
Column 4 was 1, 2, 3, 4, etc. So, you need a different numbering system
for your partner’s list, as you copy it into Column 6; let us say a, b, c, d,
etc.
COLUMN 7 Now, in Column 7, both of you can combine your Column
4 with Column 6, on your respective worksheets. Combine the two lists
in this manner: first your partner’s top favorite geographical factor
(“a”), then your top favorite geographical factor (“1”), then your
partner’s second most important favorite geographical factor (“b”), then
yours (“2”), etc., until you have twenty favorite geographical factors
(yours and your partner’s) listed, in order, in Column 7. Both of you are
now working on the same list.
SHOW AND TELL (for two people). For now, don’t work on all
twenty; narrow it down to the top ten in column 7, and list these on a
blank sheet of paper. Then both of you should show that list to everyone
you meet, for the next ten days, with the same question as above: “Can
you think of any place that has these ten factors, or at least the top five?”
Jot down their suggestions on the back of the sheet. When the ten days
are up, you and your partner should look at the back of your sheets and
agree on which three places look the most interesting to the two of you.
If there is only a partial overlap between your dream factors and the
places your friends and acquaintances suggested, make sure the overlap
is in the factors that matter the most to the two of you, i.e., those at the
top of your list in Column 7.
COLUMN 8 Now you have THE names of places that you will want to
find out more about, until you are sure which is the absolute favorite
place to live for both of you, plus your second, and your third, as
backups. Enter in Column 8.
Finally, both of you should put the names of those top three places,
plus your top five geographical factors, on to Petal 7, the Preferred
Place(s) to Live petal, on both of your Flower Diagrams, this page.
Click here to download a PDF of the What I Liked or Disliked About Places I Have
Lived Worksheet.
Conclusion for Petal 7
Does all this seem like just too much work? Well, there are two shortcuts
you may want to try. The first is a website called Find Your Spot (www.​
findyourspot.​com). Try it! See if it helps you at all. One reader said, “I
found it useful. It showed me towns I’d never thought about.”
PRIORITIZING GRID FOR 10 ITEMS OR LESS
Copyright © 2014 by Richard N. Bolles. All rights reserved.
Click here to download a PDF of the Prioritizing Grid for 10 Items or Less.
Other alternative: have everyone in the house throw darts at a map (of
the U.S. or wherever) that you’ve pinned to a dart board. One family did
this, after they couldn’t agree on anything. See what place the most darts
came near. (For them it came out: “Denver”! So, Denver it was!)
I Am a Person Who…
HAS COMPLETED MY FLOWER
Readers have asked to see an example of “That One Piece of Paper” all
filled out. Rich W. Feller—a student of mine back in 1982, now a world-
famous professor and Past President of the National Career Development
Association—filled out his flower as you see, on the facing page. He said
“That One Piece of Paper” has been his lifelong companion ever since, and
his guiding star. (The petals then were slightly different.)
Rich Feller first put his personal “picture” together over thirty years
ago. Here are his comments about its usefulness since, and how “That One
Piece of Paper” helped him, how he’s used it, and how it’s changed.
WHAT THE PARACHUTE FLOWER HAS MEANT TO ME
More than anything I’ve gained from an academic life, my Flower
has given me hope, direction, and a lens to satisfaction. Using it to
assess my life direction during crisis, career moves, and stretch
assignments, it helps me define and hold to personal commitments.
In many ways it’s my “guiding light.” Data within my Flower
became and remain the core of any success and satisfaction I have
achieved.
After I first filled out my own Flower Diagram in a two-week
workshop with Dick Bolles back in 1982, I decided to teach the
Flower to others. My academic position has allowed me to do this,
abundantly. Having now taught the Flower to thousands of
counselors and career development and human resource specialists, I
continually use it with clients, and in my own transitional retirement
planning.
I’m overwhelmed with how little has changed within my Flower,
over the years. My Flower is the best of what I am. Its petals are my
compass, and using my “favorite skills” are the mirror to a joyful
day. I trust the wisdom within “That One Piece of Paper.” It has
guided my work and my life, ever since 1982, and it has helped my
wife and I define our hopes for our son.
The process of filling out and acting on “That One Piece of Paper”
taught me a lot. Specifically, it taught me the importance of the
following ten things, often running contrary to what my studies
and doctoral work had taught me previously.
I learned from my Flower the importance of:
1. Chasing after passions, honoring strengths, and respecting skill
identification
2. Challenging societal definitions of balance and success
3. Committing to something bigger than oneself
4. Living authentically and with joy
5. Being good at what matters to oneself and its relationship to
opportunity
6. Finding pleasure in all that one does
7. Staying focused on well-being and life satisfaction
8. Personal clarity and responsibility for designing “possible
selves”
9. Letting the world know, humbly but clearly, what we want
10. “Coaching” people amidst a world of abundance where
individuals yearn for individual meaning and purpose more than
they hunger for possessions, abject compliance with society’s
expectations, or simply fitting in
This technologically enhanced, global workplace we now face in
the twenty-first century certainly challenges all we thought we knew
about our life roles. Maintaining clarity, learning agility, and
identifying development plans have become elevated to new and
critical importance, if we are to maintain choice. As a result I’ve
added the following four emphases to “Rich’s Flower”: Have, do,
learn, and give. That is to say, I try to keep a running list (constantly
updated) of ten things that I want to:
1. Have
2. Do
3. Learn
4. Give
Through the practice of answering the four questions listed above,
I can measure change in my growth and development.
I feel so fortunate to have the opportunity to share with others how
much I gained from the wisdom and hope embedded within “Rich’s
Flower.”
I humbly offer my resume, home location and design, and family
commitments on my website at www.​mychhs.​colostate.​edu/​Rich.​
Feller. I’d be honored to share my journey, and encourage others to
nurture and shine light on their garden as well. I believe you’ll find
about 90% of the Flower’s items influence our daily experience.
Rich Feller
Professor of Counseling and Career Development
University Distinguished Teaching Scholar
Colorado State University
Fort Collins, CO
Example (Rich Feller’s Flower)
Click here to download a PDF of Rich Feller's Flower.
Okay, like Rich, you’ve now got your completed Flower.
Nice diagram. What do you do with it?
Well, that’s the subject of our next chapter.
Click here to download a PDF of The Flower.
1. Incidentally, there is a fascinating book about those whose primary code is “A.”
It’s called The Career Guide for Creative and Unconventional People, Fourth
Edition, by Carol Eikleberry with Carrie Pinsky.
2. Incidentally, John always encouraged people to write down somewhere all six
versions (technically called permutations) of your code. Thus, if your code were,
say, SIA, its permutations would be: SIA, SAI, IAS, ISA, ASI, AIS. This is
especially useful if you are ever going to look up careers that correspond to your
code. Put “Holland Codes for careers” into your favorite search engine, and you
will find such sites as www.​vista-cards.​com/​occupations.
Further, he and I worked together on this application of his system to
daydreams: list all the things you’ve ever dreamed of doing. Then, to the right of
each, try to guess—guess!—at what you think the three-letter Holland Code would
be for each. When done, look at each code and assign a value of 3 to any letter in
the first position; assign a value of 2 to any letter in the second position; and assign
a value of 1 to any letter in the third position (e.g., in the case of IAS, you’d give 3
points to “I,” 2 points to “A,” and 1 point to “S”). Do this for every code you’ve
written down, then total up all the points for each letter. How many points did “R”
get, how many points did “I” get, etc. Choose the top three with the most points, in
order, when you’re done, and you have the Holland Code of your daydreams. As
John said to me, “This is the most reliable way of determining someone’s code, but
who would believe it, except you and me?”
3. This list is the brainchild of Daniel Porot (© 1994 Daniel Porot).
4. And by the way, if you want to have fun, if you have a computer go to the Internet,
choose a browser like Google or Bing, and type your sphere (the Mind, etc.) into
the search line, and see if anything pops up that intrigues you.
5. I am indebted, again, to Daniel Porot of Geneva, Switzerland, for many of these
suggestions.
6. Daniel Kahneman and Angus Deaton, Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, Early Edition, September 6, 2010.
7. According to Sentier Research, reported by Paul Davidson, “U.S. Median
Household Income Up 4% at End of 2011,” USA Today, February 9, 2012.
8. If you have extra household expenses, such as a security system, be sure to include
the quarterly (or whatever) expenses here, divided by three.
9. Your checkbook stubs and/or online banking records will tell you a lot of this stuff.
But you may be vague about your cash or credit card expenditures. For example,
you may not know how much you spend at the supermarket, or how much you
spend on gas, etc. But there is a simple way to find out. Keep notes on your
smartphone or iPad for two weeks (there are apps for that, such as Daily Cost—
$1.99). Jot down everything you pay cash (or use credit cards) for—on the spot,
right after you pay it. At the end of those two weeks, you’ll be able to take that
record and make a realistic guess of what should be put down in these categories
that now puzzle you. (Multiply the two-week figure by two, and you’ll have the
monthly figure.)
10. Incidentally, for U.S. citizens, looking ahead to next April 15, be sure to check
with your local IRS office or a reputable accountant to find out if you can deduct
the expenses of your job-hunt on your federal (and state) income tax returns. At
this writing, some job-hunters can, if—big IF—this is not your first job that you’re
looking for, if you haven’t been unemployed too long, and if you aren’t making a
career-change. Do go find out what the latest “ifs” are. If the IRS says you are
eligible, keep careful receipts of everything related to your job-hunt, as you go
along: telephone calls, stationery, printing, postage, travel, etc.
 
You’ve got to be careful
If you don’t know where you’re going,
Because you might not get there.
—Yogi Berra (1925–2015)
CHAPTER 9
You Get to Choose Where You
Work
Some of you will look at your completed Flower Exercise and have an
instant flash of recognition. Wow, I see what I want to do with my life! I’m
excited. Others of you will need a more carefully reasoned series of steps
to find that out.
Here are five steps that job-hunters or career-changers have found
tremendously helpful to take—and in this order:
#1 Find Out What Careers or Work Your Flower Points To.
#2 Try On Some of Those Jobs Before You Decide Which Ones to
Pursue.
#3 Find Out What Kinds of Organizations Have Such Jobs.
#4 Find Names of Particular Places That Interest You.
#5 Research That Place Thoroughly Before Formally Approaching
Them.
First, You Need to Find Out What Careers or Jobs
Your Flower Points To
1. Look at your completed Flower Diagram, and from the fifth petal of
the Flower choose the top three of your favorite Knowledges (or
fields of interest, favorite fields, or fields of fascination—whatever
you want to call them). All nouns. On one piece of blank paper, say
8½ x 11, or on your mobile device, copy these in the top half of that
page, in their order of importance to you (most important at the top).
Beneath them all, midway down the page, draw a line, straight across.
2. Then, look at the Skills petal on your completed Flower Diagram and
choose your top five favorite Transferable Skills. All verbs. Copy
them down, in order, below the line.
3. Now, take this page and show it to at least five friends, family
members, or professionals whom you know. Ask them what jobs or
work this page suggests to them. Tell them you just want them to take
some wild guesses, combining as many of the eight factors on that
page, as possible. Plan B: If they absolutely draw a blank, tell them
that interests or special knowledges (in the top half of the page)
usually point toward a career field, while transferable skills (in the
bottom half) usually point toward a job-title or job-level, in that field.
So, ask them, in the case of your favorite special knowledges, “What
career fields do these suggest to you?” And in the case of your
transferable skills, “What job-title or jobs do these skills suggest to
you?” If possible, you or they must combine two or three of your
knowledges (fields) into one specialty: that’s what can make you
unique, with very little competition from others.
Here is how to go about doing that: let us say your three favorite
knowledges are gardening and carpentry and a limited knowledge of
psychiatry. What you want to do is use all three expertises, not just
one of them—if you possibly can. So, put those three favorite
knowledges on a series of overlapping circles, as seen above. Now, to
figure out how to combine these three, imagine that each circle is a
person; that is, in this case, Psychiatrist, Carpenter, and Gardener.
You ask yourself which person took the longest to get trained in their
specialty. The answer, here, is the psychiatrist. The reason you ask
yourself this question, is that the person with the longest training is
most likely to have the broadest overview of things. So, you go to see
a psychiatrist, either at a private clinic or at a university or hospital.
You ask for fifteen minutes of his or her time, and pay them if
necessary. Then you ask the psychiatrist if he or she knows how to
combine psychiatry with one—just one, initially—of your other two
favorite knowledges. Let’s say you choose gardening, here. “Doctor,
do you know anyone who combines a knowledge of psychiatry with a
knowledge of gardening or plants?” Since I’m talking about a true
story here, I can tell you what the psychiatrist said: “Yes, in working
with catatonic patients, we often give them a plant to take care of, so
they know there is something that is depending on them for its future,
and its survival.” “And how would I also employ a knowledge of
carpentry?” “Well, in building the planters, that’s a start, isn’t it?”
This is the way you learn how to combine your three favorite
knowledges, all at once, no matter what those three may be.
4. Jot down everything these people suggest to you, on your computer,
iPad, smartphone, or small pad of paper. Whether you like their
suggestions, or not. This is just brainstorming, for the moment.
5. After you have done this for a week or so, with everyone you meet,
sit down and look at all these notes. Anything helpful or valuable
here? If you see some useful suggestions, circle them and determine
to explore them. If nothing looks interesting, go talk to five more of
your friends, acquaintances, or people you know in the business
world or nonprofit sector. Repeat, as necessary.
6. As you ponder any suggestions that look worth exploring, consider
the fact we saw in chapter 8, that all jobs can be described as working
primarily with people or working primarily with information/data or
working primarily with things. Most jobs involve all three, but which
is your primary preference? It is often your favorite skill that will
give you the clue. If it doesn’t, then go back and look at the whole
Transferable Skills petal, on your Flower Diagram. What do you
think? Are your favorite skills weighted more toward working with
people, or toward working with information/data, or toward working
with things?
7. Just remember what you are trying to do here: find some names for
your Flower. Typically, if you show it to enough family, friends, or
colleagues, you will end up with about forty suggestions.
Don’t ever think to yourself: “Well, I see what it is that I would die to
be able to do, but I know there is no job in the world like that.” Dear
friend, you don’t know any such thing. Now I grant you that after you have
completed it, you may not be able to find all that you want—down to the
last detail. But you’d be surprised at how much of your dream you may be
able to find. Sometimes it will be found in stages. One retired man I know,
who had been a senior executive with a publishing company, found
himself bored to death in retirement, after he turned sixty-five. He decided
he didn’t care what field he worked in, at that point, so he contacted his
favorite business acquaintance, who told him apologetically, “Times are
tough. We just don’t have anything open that matches or requires your
abilities; right now all we need is someone in our mail room.” The sixty-
five-year-old executive said, “I’ll take that job!” He did, and over the
ensuing years steadily advanced once again, to just the job he wanted: as a
senior executive in that organization, where he utilized all his prized skills,
for a number of years. Finally, he retired for the second time, at the age of
eighty-five.
Always keep in mind your dream. Get as close to it as you can. Then be
patient. You never know what doors will open up.
Second, You Need to Try On Jobs Before You Decide
Which Ones to Pursue
You know when you go shopping at a clothing store you try on different
suits (or dresses) that you see in their window or on their racks. Why do
you try them on? Well, the suits or dresses that look terrific in the window
don’t always look so hot when you see them on you. The clothes don’t
hang quite right, etc.
It’s the same with careers. Ones that sound terrific in your imagination
don’t always look so great when you actually see them up close and
personal.
What you want of course is a career that looks terrific—in the window,
and on you. So you need to go talk to people who are already doing the
kind of job or career that you’re thinking about. The website LinkedIn
should be invaluable to you, in locating the names of such people.
Once you find them, if they live nearby ask for nineteen minutes of their
time face-to-face—Starbucks?—and keep to your word, unless during the
chat they insist they want to go on talking. Some workers—not all—are
desperate to find someone who will actually listen to them; you may come
as an answer to their prayers.
Here are some questions that will help when you’re talking with workers
who are actually doing the career or job you think you might like to do:
“How did you get into this work?”
“What do you like the most about it?”
“What do you like the least about it?”
And, “Where else could I find people who do this kind of work?”
(You should always ask them for more than one name, here, so that if
you run into a dead end at any point, you can easily go visit the other
name[s] they suggested.)
If at any point in these informational interviews with workers, it
becomes more and more clear to you that this career, occupation, or job
you are exploring definitely doesn’t fit you, then the last question (above)
gets turned into a different kind of inquiry:
“Do you have any ideas as to who else I could talk to—about my
skills and special knowledges or interests—who might know what
other careers use the same skills and knowledge?” If they come up
with names, go visit the people they suggest. If they can’t think of
anyone, ask them, “If you don’t know of anyone, who do you think
might know?”
Sooner or later, as you do this informational interviewing with workers,
you’ll find a career that fits you just fine. It uses your favorite skills. It
employs your favorite special knowledges or fields of interest. Okay, then
you must ask how much training, etc., it takes, to get into that field or
career. You ask the same people you have been talking to, previously.
More times than not, you will hear bad news. They will tell you
something like: “In order to be hired for this job, you have to have a
master’s degree and ten years’ experience at it.”
Is that so? Keep in mind that no matter how many people tell you that
such-and-such are the rules about getting into a particular occupation, and
there are no exceptions—believe me there are exceptions to almost every
rule, except for those few professions that have rigid entrance
examinations as, say, medicine or law. Otherwise, somebody has figured
out a way around the rules. You want to find out who these people are, and
go talk to them, to find out how they did it.
So, in your informational interviewing, you press deeper; you search for
exceptions:
“Yes, but do you know of anyone in this field who got into it without
that master’s degree, and ten years’ experience?”
“And where might I find him or her?”
“And if you don’t know of any such person, who do you think might
know?”
But in the end, maybe—just maybe—you can’t find any exceptions. It’s
not that they aren’t out there; it’s just that you don’t know how to find
them. So, what do you do when everyone tells you that such-and-such a
career takes years to prepare for, and you can’t find anyone who took a
shortcut? What then?
Good news. Every professional specialty has one or more shadow
professions, which require much less training. For example, instead of
becoming a doctor, you can go into paramedical work; instead of
becoming a lawyer, you can go into paralegal work; instead of becoming a
licensed career counselor, you can become a career coach. There is always
a way to get close, at least, to what you dream of.
Third, You Need to Find Out What Kinds of
Organizations Have Such Jobs
Before you think of individual places where you might like to work, it is
helpful to stop and think of all the kinds of places where one might get
hired, so you can be sure you’re casting the widest net possible.
Let’s take an example. Suppose in your new career you want to be a
teacher. You must then ask yourself: “What kinds of places hire teachers?”
You might answer, “Just schools”—and finding that schools in your
geographical area have no openings, you might say, “Well, there are no
jobs for people in this career.”
But wait a minute! There are countless other kinds of organizations and
agencies out there, besides schools, that employ teachers. For example,
corporate training and educational departments, workshop sponsors,
foundations, private research firms, educational consultants, teachers’
associations, professional and trade societies, military bases, state and
local councils on higher education, fire and police training academies, and
so on and so forth.
“Kinds of places” also means places with different hiring options,
besides full-time, such as:
places that would employ you part-time (maybe you’ll end up
deciding, or having, to hold down two or even three part-time jobs,
which together add up to one full-time job);
places that take temporary workers, on assignment for one project at a
time;
places that take consultants, one project at a time;
places that operate primarily with volunteers, etc.;
places that are nonprofit;
places that are for-profit;
and, don’t forget, places that you yourself could start up, should you
decide to be your own boss (see chapter 12).
During this interviewing for information, you should not only talk to
people who can give you a broad overview of the career that you are
considering. You should also talk with actual workers, who can tell you in
more detail what the tasks are in the kinds of organizations that interest
you.
Fourth, You Need to Find Names of Particular Places
That Interest You
As you interview workers about their jobs or careers, somebody will
probably innocently mention, somewhere along the way, actual names of
organizations that have such kinds of workers—plus what’s good or bad
about the place. This is important information for you. Jot it all down.
Keep notes religiously!
But you will want to supplement what they have told you, by seeking
out other people to whom you can simply say: “I’m interested in this kind
of organization, because I want to do this kind of work; do you know of
particular places like that, that I might investigate? And if so, where they
are located?” Use face-to-face interviews, use LinkedIn, use the Yellow
Pages, use search engines, to try to find the answer(s) to that question.
Incidentally, you must not care, at this point, if they have known vacancies
or not. The only question that should concern you for the moment is
whether or not the place looks interesting, or even intriguing to you. (The
only caveat is that you will probably want to investigate smaller places—
100 or fewer employees—rather than larger; and newer places, rather
than older.) But for a successful job-hunt you should choose places
based on your interest in them, and not wait for them to open up a
vacancy. Vacancies can suddenly open up in a moment, and without
warning.
What will you end up with, when this step is done? Well, you’ll likely
have either too few names or too many to go investigate. There are ways of
dealing with either of these eventualities.
TOO MANY NAMES
You will want to cut the territory down, to a manageable number of
targets.
Let’s take an example. Suppose you discover that the career that
interests you the most is welding. You want to be a welder. Well, that’s a
beginning. You’ve cut the 23 million U.S. job-markets down to:
• I want to work in a place that hires welders.
But the territory is still too large. There might be thousands of places in the
country, that use welders. You can’t go visit them all. So, you’ve got to cut
down the territory, further. Suppose that on your Preferred Place to Live
petal you said that you really want to live and work in the San Jose area of
California. That’s helpful: that cuts down the territory further. Now your
goal is:
• I want to work in a place that hires welders, within the San Jose
area.
But, the territory is still too large. There could be 100, 200, 300
organizations that fit that description. So you look at your Flower Diagram
for further help, and you notice that under working conditions you said you
wanted to work for an organization with fifty or fewer employees. Good,
now your goal is:
• I want to work in a place that hires welders, within the San Jose
area, that has fifty or fewer employees.
This territory may still be too large. So you look again at your Flower
Diagram for further guidance, and you see that you said you wanted to
work for an organization that works with, or produces, wheels. So now
your statement of what you’re looking for, becomes:
• I want to work in a place that hires welders, within the San Jose
area, has fifty or fewer employees, and makes wheels.
Using your Flower Diagram, you can thus keep cutting down the territory,
until the “targets” of your job-hunt are no more than ten places. That’s a
manageable number of places for you to start with. You can always
expand the list later, if none of these ten turns out to be promising or
interesting.
TOO FEW NAMES
In this case, you want to expand the territory. Your salvation here is
probably not going to be informational interviewing face-to-face, but print
or digital directories. There is, first of all, the Yellow Pages of your local
phone book, either in print or online. Look under every heading that is of
any interest to you. Also, see if the local chamber of commerce publishes a
business directory; often it will list not only small companies but also local
divisions of larger companies, with names of department heads; sometimes
they will even include the North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) codes, which is useful if you want to search by the code of your
chosen field. Thirdly, see if your town or city publishes a business
newsletter, directory, or even a Book of Lists on its own. It will, of course,
cost you, but it may be worth it. Some metropolitan areas (San Francisco
comes to mind) have particularly helpful ones. Forty of them are listed at
www.​bizjournals.​com.
If you are diligent here, you won’t lack for names, believe me—unless
it’s a very small town you live in, in which case you’ll just have to cast
your net a little wider, to include other towns, villages, or cities that are
within commuting distance from you.
Fifth, You Need to Learn as Much as You Can About
a Place Before Formally Approaching Them
At some point you will be happy. You’ve found a career that you would
die to do. You’ve interviewed people actually doing that work, and you
like it even more. You’ve found names of places that hire people in that
career.
Okay, now what? Do you rush right over there? No, you research those
places first. This is an absolute must. Remember, companies and
organizations love to be loved. You demonstrate you love them when you
have taken the trouble to find out all about them, before you walk in.
That’s called research.
What is it you should research about places before you approach them
for a hiring-interview? Well, first of all, you want to know something
about the organization from the inside: what kind of work they do there.
Their style of working. Their so-called corporate culture. And what kinds
of goals they are trying to achieve, what obstacles or challenges they are
running into, and how your skills and knowledges can help them. In the
interview you must be prepared to demonstrate that you have something
they need. That begins with finding out what they need.
Secondly, you want to find out if you would enjoy working there. You
want to take the measure of those organizations. As I mentioned earlier,
everybody takes the measure of a workplace, but most job-hunters or
career-changers only do it after they are hired there. In the U.S., for
example, a survey of the federal/state employment service once found that
57% of those who found a job through that service were not working at
that job just thirty days later, and this was because they used the first ten or
twenty days on the job to find out they didn’t really like it there at all.
You, by doing this research ahead of time, are choosing a better path by
far. Yes, even in tough times, you do want to be picky. Otherwise, you’ll
take the job in desperation, thinking, “Oh, I could put up with anything,”
and then finding out after you take the job that you were kidding yourself.
So you have to quit, and start your job-hunt all over again. By doing this
research now, you are saving yourself a lot of grief. So, you need to know,
ahead of time, if this place just doesn’t fit. Now, how do you find that out?
There are several ways, some face-to-face, some not:
Friends and Neighbors. Ask everyone you know, if they know
anyone who works at the places that interest you. And, if they do, ask
them if they could arrange for you and that person to get together, for
lunch, coffee, or tea. At that time, tell them why the place interests
you, and indicate you’d like to know more about it. (It helps a lot if
your mutual friend is sitting there with the two of you, so the purpose
of this little chat won’t be misconstrued.) This is the vastly preferred
way to find out about a place. However, obviously you need a couple
of additional alternatives up your sleeve, in case you run into a dead
end here.
People at the Organizations in Question, or Similar. LinkedIn has
an extensive menu where you can find a company’s name. They will
tell you who works there, or used to work there. An email will
sometimes produce an interesting contact; but in this increasingly
busy busy life, even the best-hearted people may sometimes say they
just cannot give you any time, due to overload. If so, respect that.
You can go in person to organizations and ask questions about the
place. This is not recommended with large organizations that have
security guards and so on. But with small organizations (in this case,
50 employees or fewer) you sometimes can find out a great deal by
just showing up. Here, however, I must caution you about several
dangers.
First, make sure you’re not asking them questions that are in print
somewhere, which you could easily have read for yourself instead of
bothering them. This irritates people.
Second, make sure that you approach the gateway people—front
desk, receptionists, customer service, etc.—before you ever approach
people higher up in that organization.
Third, make sure that you approach subordinates rather than the top
person in the place, if the subordinates would know the answer to
your questions. Bothering the boss there with some simple questions
that someone else could have answered is committing job-hunting
suicide.
Fourth, make sure you’re not using this approach simply as a
sneaky way to get in to see the boss, and make a pitch for them to hire
you. You said this was just information gathering. Don’t lie. Don’t
ever lie. They will remember you, but not in the way you want to be
remembered.
What’s on the Internet. Many job-hunters or career-changers think
that every organization, company, or nonprofit, has its own website,
these days. Not true. Sometimes they do, sometimes they don’t. It
often has to do with the size of the place, its access to a good web
designer, its desperation for customers, etc. Easy way to find out: if
you have access to the Internet, type the name of the place into your
favorite search engine (Google, Bing, or whatever) and see what that
turns up. Try more than one search engine. Sometimes one knows
things the others don’t. There are, in fact, sites on the Internet
particularly devoted to getting feedback on organizations from actual
employees who are working there or recently used to. The most
famous of these is Glassdoor (www.​glassdoor.​com/​Reviews/​index.​
htm). Approximately half of all job-seekers consult Glassdoor.1 It has
employee reviews from over 600,000 companies or organizations
worldwide. It will even tell you which companies are (supposedly)
the best to work for, etc. Similar review sites are Take This Job or
Shove It (http://takethisjoborshoveit.​com) and Career Bliss (www.​
careerbliss.​com/​reviews).
What’s in Print. Not books; their time lag is too great. But often the
organization has timely stuff—in print, or on its website—about its
business, purpose, etc. Also, the CEO or head of the organization may
have given talks, and the front desk there may have copies of those
talks. In addition, there may be brochures, annual reports, etc., that
the organization has put out, about itself. How can you get copies?
The person who answers the phone there, if you call, will know the
answer, or at least know who to refer you to. Also, if it’s a decent-size
organization, public libraries in that town or city may have files on
that organization—newspaper clippings, articles, etc. You never
know; and it never hurts to ask your friendly neighborhood research
librarian.
Temporary Agencies. Many job-hunters and career-changers have
found that a useful way to explore organizations is to go and work at
a temporary agency. To find these, put into Google the name of your
town or city and (on the same search line) the words “Temp
Agencies” or “Employment Agencies.” Employers turn to such
agencies in order to find (a) job-hunters who can work part-time for a
limited number of days; and (b) job-hunters who can work full-time
for a limited number of days. The advantage to you of temporary
work is that if there is an agency that loans out people with your
particular skills and expertise, you get a chance to be sent to a number
of different employers over a period of several weeks, and see each
one from the inside. Maybe the temp agency won’t send you to
exactly the place you hoped for, but sometimes you can develop
contacts in the place you love, even while you’re temporarily working
somewhere else—if both organizations are in the same field. At the
very least you’ll pick up experience that you can later cite on your
resume.
Volunteering. If you’re okay financially for a while, but can’t find
work, you volunteer to work for nothing, short-term, at a place which
has a “cause” or mission that interests you. You can find a directory
of places that are known to do this, in what are called “internships”
(www.​internships.​com) or “volunteer opportunities” (listed at www.​
volunteeringinamerica.​gov—see their data infographic about
volunteering leading to employment—and www.​volunteermatch.​
org). Also, you can put into your search engine the name of the city
or town where you live, together with the phrase “volunteer
opportunities,” and see what that turns up. Or you can just walk into
an organization or company of your choice, and ask if they would let
you volunteer your time, there.
Your goal is, first of all, to find out more about the place.
Secondly, if you’ve been out of work a lengthy period of time, your
goal is to feel useful. You’re making your life count for something.
Thirdly, your distant hope is that maybe somewhere down the line
they’ll actually want to hire you to stay on, for pay. The odds of that
happening in these hard times are pretty remote, so don’t count on it
and don’t push it; but sometimes they may ask you to stay. For pay.
The success rate of this as a method for finding jobs isn’t terrific. But
it does happen.
You Must Send Thank-You Notes, Please, Please,
Pleeze
After anyone has done you a favor, anytime during your job-hunt, you
must be sure to send them a thank-you note by the very next day, at the
latest. I emphasized this in tips #9 and #16 in chapter 4. It’s just as
important here. Such a note should be sent by you to anyone who helps
you, or who talks with you. That means friends, people at the organization
in question, temporary agency people, secretaries, receptionists, librarians,
workers, or whomever.
Ask them, at the time you are face-to-face with them, for their business
card (if they have one), or ask them to write out their name and work
address, on a piece of paper, for you. You don’t want to misspell their
name. It is difficult to figure out how to spell people’s names, these days,
simply from the sound of it. What sounds like “Laura” may actually be
“Lara.” What sounds like “Smith” may actually be “Smythe,” and so on.
Get that name and address, but get it right, please.
And let me reiterate: thank-you notes must be prompt. Email the thank-
you note that same night, or the very next day at the latest. Follow it with a
lovely copy, handwritten or printed, nicely formatted, and sent through the
mail. Most employers these days prefer a printed letter to a handwritten
one, but if your handwriting is beautiful, then go for it.
Don’t ramble on and on. Your mailed thank-you note can be just two or
three sentences. Something like: “I wanted to thank you for talking with
me yesterday. It was very helpful to me. I much appreciated your taking
the time out of your busy schedule to do this. Best wishes to you,” and then
sign it. Of course, if there’s any additional thought you want to add, then
add it. And when you’re done, remember to sign it.
What If I Get Offered a Job Along the Way, While
I’m Just Gathering Information?
Not likely. Nonetheless, an occasional employer may stray across your
path during all this Informational Interviewing. And that employer may be
so impressed with you, that they want to hire you, on the spot. So, it’s
possible that you’d get offered a job while you’re still doing your
information gathering. Not very likely, but possible. And if that happens,
what should you say?
Well, if you’re desperate, you will probably have to say yes. I remember
one wintertime when I was in my thirties, with a family of five, when I had
just gone through the knee of my last pair of pants, we were burning pieces
of old furniture in our fireplace to stay warm, the legs on our bed had just
broken, and we were eating spaghetti until it was coming out our ears. In
such a situation, you can’t afford to be picky. You’ve got to put food on
the table, and stave off the debt-collectors. Now.
But if you’re not desperate, if you have time to be more careful, then
you respond to the job offer in a way that will buy you some time. You tell
them what you’re doing: that the average job-hunter tries to screen a job
after they take it. But you are examining careers, fields, industries, jobs,
and particular organizations before you decide where you would do your
best and most effective work. And you’re sure this employer would do the
same, if they were in your shoes. (If they’re not impressed with your
thoroughness and professionalism, at this point, then I assure you this is
not a place where you want to work.)
Add that your informational interviewing isn’t finished yet, so it would
be premature for you to accept their job offer, until you’re sure that this is
the place where you could be most effective, and do your best work.
Then, you add: “Of course, I’m tickled pink that you would want me to
be working here. And when I’ve finished my personal survey, I’ll be glad
to get back to you about this, as my preliminary impression is that this is
the kind of place I’d like to work in, and the kind of people I’d like to
work for, and the kind of people I’d like to work with.”
In other words, if you’re not desperate yet, you don’t walk immediately
through any opened doors, but neither should you allow them to shut.
As I said, this scenario is highly unlikely. You’re networking with
workers. But it’s nice to be prepared ahead of time, in your mind, just in
case it does ever happen.
A Final Word: Contacts
A word about contacts in general: research has revealed that in general the
more of a social life you have, the more people you know, the more time
you spend with people outside of work, the more likely you are to find a
job. And the more people you know who are in other fields than your own,
the more likely you are to be able to effectively change careers. Often, in
fact, your contacts will turn up job opportunities for you even before you
go out formally searching. Problem: 1 in 4 workers don’t network at all.
And 41% would like to network more but don’t feel they have time. Those
statistics are for the U.K.,2 but similar findings are found around the world.
Another discovery from research is that the farther afield these contacts
are from your usual social circles, the more likely they are to help your
job-hunt. If you ask yourself how much time you spend with your contacts,
your contacts will divide into those with whom you have “strong ties” and
those with whom you have “weak ties,” the latter being defined as people
you see only occasionally or rarely—maybe only once a year, or even less.
These “weak ties” will strengthen your job-search immeasurably.
The findings from the research have been summarized by Mark
Granovetter, professor at Stanford, as “the strength of weak ties.” As he
writes in his classic Getting a Job: A Study of Contacts and Careers,
“There is…a structural tendency for those to whom one is only weakly
tied, to have better access to job information one does not already have.
Acquaintances, as compared to close friends, are more prone to move in
different circles than one’s self. Those to whom one is closest are likely to
have the greater overlap with those one already knows, so that the
information to which they are privy is likely to be much the same as that
which one already has.”3
Now, once you’ve found a place that interests you and you want to get
an interview there, there is a particular kind of contact that will save your
neck. I call such a contact a “Bridge-Person.” What I mean by that title, is
that they know you; and they know them (your target), and thus bridge the
gap between you and a job there.
You can’t identify a bridge-person until you have a target company or
organization in mind. But when that time comes, here’s how you go about
identifying bridge-people:
1. The website LinkedIn is your best friend here.4 Each employer you
want to pursue should have a Company Profile page. (Unless the
company is just too small.) Identify what place you want to approach,
and look up its Company Profile page; go there.
2. Start with the company. Ask LinkedIn to tell you the people in your
network who work for the company you are targeting. Then sort that
list. You can sort it by employees there, who share:
a. A LinkedIn group with You
b. A former employer with You
c. A school with You
d. An industry with You
e. A language with You
f. A specific location with You
3. Then go to your school. On that same Company Profile page, look for
your school—if you ever attended vo-tech school, community
college, college, university, or grad school, ask LinkedIn to tell you
who among your fellow alumni work for the company or organization
you are targeting.
4. Then go to the company activity. On that same Company Profile
page, ask LinkedIn to tell you new hires (who), departures (who), job-
title changes, job-postings, number of employees who use LinkedIn,
where current employees work, where current employees worked
before they worked for this company, where former employees went
after they worked for this company, etc. Insightful statistics!
5. As for connecting with the bridge-people whose names you discover,
currently LinkedIn requires you to have one of their paid
memberships, rather than the free one, to send a note to someone
who’s not a direct connection. But if they’re still working at the
company, you can phone the company and ask for them. Or you can
search for their contact information through a larger search engine
(Google their name!).
6. If you come up blank, both on LinkedIn and all the other places you
search for names, such as family, friends, Facebook, etc. (no bridge-
person can be found who knows you and also knows them), you can
advertise on LinkedIn, for such connections. They have “ads by
LinkedIn Members” available to you, for modest cost (so far!). You
can also browse LinkedIn groups, and join those (ten at the most) that
seem most likely to be seen by the kinds of companies you are trying
to reach. However, don’t just join them! Post intelligent questions,
respond to intelligent “post-ers” that you think make sense. In other
words, attain as high visibility there as you can; maybe employers
will then come after you.
Once you get an introduction to a place, follow the instructions about
interviews that you saw in chapter 4 of this book. And, good luck!
1. Erin Osterhaus, “Half of All Job Seekers Consult Glassdoor Reviews,” ERE,
January 23, 2014, www.​eremedia.​com/​ere/​half-of-all-job-seekers-consult-
glassdoor-reviews.
2. Julia Hobsbawm, “Fully Connected,” EY, http://ukcareers.​ey.​com/​beingconnected.
3. Mark Granovetter, Getting a Job: A Study of Contacts and Careers, Second
Edition (Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1995), pp. 52–53.
4. As readers of previous editions of Parachute will recall, there used to be a
wonderful site called Jobs with Friends. I regret—deeply regret—to report it has
now gone out of business.
 
Do not pray for tasks equal to your powers.
Pray for powers equal to your tasks.
—Phillips Brooks (1835–1893)
CHAPTER 10
How to Deal with Any Handicaps
You Have
I know what you’re thinking. If you got a job-interview (or interviews),
and got turned down, you’re thinking that there is some handicap (hidden
or obvious) that is keeping you from getting hired.
Maybe you were thinking this, even before you went in for an interview.
(You turned to this chapter straightaway, didn’t you?)
You’re thinking, I’m getting turned down (or I will be turned down)
because:
I have a physical handicap or
I have a mental handicap or
I never graduated from high school or
I never graduated from college or
I am just graduating or
I just graduated two years ago and am still unemployed or
I graduated way too long ago or
I am too beautiful or handsome or
I am too ugly or
I am too fat or
I am too thin or
I am too old or
I am too young or
I am too near retirement or
I have only had one employer in life or
I have hopped from job to job all my life or
I have been out of the job-market too long or
I have been in the job-market far too long or
I am too inexperienced or
I have a prison record or
I have a psychiatric history or
I have not had enough education and am underqualified or
I have too much education and am overqualified or
I am Hispanic or
I am Black or
I am Asian or
My English is not very good or
I speak heavily accented English or
I am too much of a specialist or
I am too much of a generalist or
I am ex-clergy or
I am ex-military or
I am too assertive or
I am too shy or
I have only worked for volunteer organizations or
I have only worked for small organizations or
I have only worked for a large organization or
I have only worked for the government or
I come from a very different culture or background or
I come from another industry or
I come from another planet.
If all of this were true, there would be only three weeks in our life when
we are employable!
Okay, but let’s get one thing straight, from the beginning here: you can’t
possibly have a handicap that will keep employers from hiring you. You
can only have a handicap that will keep some employers from hiring you.
No matter what handicap you have, or think you have, it cannot possibly
keep you from getting hired anywhere in the world. It can only keep you
from getting hired at some places.
As I said in chapter 4, “There are millions of separate, distinct, unrelated
employers out there with very different requirements for hiring. Unless
you look dirty, wild, and disreputable, and smell really bad, if you know
what your talent is, I guarantee some employer is looking for you. Even if
you’re crazy, there’s some employer crazier than you. You have to keep
going. Some employers out there do want you, no matter what the others
think. Your job is to find them.”
You Cannot Generalize About Employers
I mentioned this, of course, in chapter 1. And here we are back to that
same truth. As far as your handicap is concerned, you can generalize this
much: all employers divide for you into just two tribes: employers who are
interested in hiring you for what you can do; vs. employers who are
bothered by what you can’t do.
No matter how many times you run into the latter kind, once you
discover their attitude, you should just courteously thank them for their
time, and ask if they know of any other employers who might be interested
in someone with your skills. Then, gently take your leave.
And speaking of courtesy, always remember to write and mail them a
thank-you note that very night, no matter how mad or frustrated they may
have made you feel.
And then keep going, day after day, week after week, month after
month, if necessary, until you find the other kind of employer: the one who
only looks at what you can do, not at what you can’t.
Everyone Is Handicapped
You may wonder how many job-hunters are handicapped. Well, the
answer is: everyone. Or, you may wonder how many people in the entire
workforce are handicapped. Again, the answer is: everyone.
What! Well, sure. A real handicap means dis-ability: there are some
things a person does not have the ability to do. The reason doesn’t matter.
Now, consider how many skills there are, in the whole world. Nobody
knows the number, so let’s make one up. Let’s say there are 4,341
transferable skills in the world.
How many of those 4,341 do you think the average person has? Nobody
knows that number either, so let’s again make one up. Let’s guess big here.
Let’s guess the average person has 1,341 skills. That’s 1,341 things the
average worker can do. You know, things like dig, analyze, communicate,
sell, design, cook, repair—those sorts of things.
But if there are 4,341 skills in all the world, and the average person only
has 1,341 of them, then that leaves 3,000 things the average person can’t
do.
Of course, what those 3,000 are, will vary from person to person. But, in
the end, everybody is handicapped. Everybody.
So when you go job-hunting, if you have a real handicap, but it doesn’t
keep you from performing the particular job or career that you are going
after, then what’s so special about your handicap, compared with other
people’s? The answer is Nothing.
Unless—unless—you are so focused on the idea that you are
handicapped, and so obsessed with what you can’t do, that you have
forgotten all the things you can do.
Unless you’re thinking of all the reasons why an employer might not
hire you, instead of all the reasons why an employer would be lucky to get
you.
Unless you’re going about your job-hunt feeling like a job-beggar,
rather than standing tall to offer yourself as a helpful resource for this
employer.
What You Can Do, What You Can’t
To get your mind off what you can’t do, and on to what you can, take a
piece of paper, online or off, and divide it into two columns, viz,
Then, get a list of transferable skills from somewhere.
a. You could use the Skills Grid in chapter 8.
b. Or, you could use the famous List of 246 Skills as Verbs, that you
will find on the next page.
c. Or if you want a way longer list for any reason, Canadian career-
expert Martin Buckland has a free mega list of 2,013 “Resume Action
Verbs” at his site, Elite Résumés (http://aneliteresume.​com).
Whichever list you use, copy as many of the skills as you choose, onto
that piece of paper, but put each skill in the proper column, depending on
whether you can do the skill, or cannot. (Or not yet, anyway.) Use
additional sheets, if needed.
When you are done with these two columns, can and can’t, pick out
your favorite five things that you can do, and love to do; and write out
some examples of how you actually did that, sometime in your past. Your
recent past, if possible.
A List of 246 Skills as Verbs
Click here to download a PDF of the List of 246 Skills as Verbs.
Dream Killers
What about a disability that seems to negate all your dreams: there is
something you’ve always dreamed of doing, but your handicap makes it
impossible.
Well, first of all, someone may have invented a technology or simple
strategy that gets around that disability. You never know. There are some
very clever people in the world. How to find them? If your particular
disability has a name, look it up on the Internet. Put its name into a search
engine like Google, and see what turns up. Look particularly on the list it
gives you, for any professional association that deals with your disability.
Contact them, and ask them what information they have.
For example, let us say that you are wrestling with decreased vision.
Some three million U.S. adults over the age of forty are. But search for
“low vision” or “visually impaired” and you will turn up techniques for
dealing with this handicap. (For example, https://lowvisionfocus.​org from
the Hadley School for the Blind has free audios and videos—dealing with
such themes as how to use the iPhone and iPad to implement your vision.)
Incidentally, for those with poor vision, or long-commute drives, the 2017
edition of Parachute exists as an audio book, on an MP3 disk, read by a
professional narrator, Mel Foster. It is eleven hours and thirty-two minutes
in length, and costs around fifteen bucks. You can order it online from
either Amazon or Barnes & Noble.
An alternative way of dealing with a dream killer is to search for jobs
similar to the one you hunger to do, but can’t.
Example: One career counselor was working with a young adult who
was dying to be a commercial airplane pilot. The killer: his eyesight was
too poor to be a pilot. Well, there was a clue as to where to go from there.
It was the way our would-be pilot talked about planes. He loved planes.
So the counselor sent him out to the large airport nearby, with a pad of
yellow paper and a pen, and told him to list every kind of occupation that
he saw or heard about, there at the airport—besides pilot. The next day he
showed his list to his counselor. It was very long. When asked if he’d
come across any occupation that interested him, he said, “Yes. I love the
idea of making the seats that they put inside new airplanes.” So, that’s the
job he pursued. He ended up in the airline industry, even though he
couldn’t be a pilot.
Disability or Prejudice?
That’s the $64,000 question. It is crucial to keep in mind that “Handicap”
is a broad term, which can refer to two entirely different things. On the one
hand, job-hunters’ disabilities. On the other hand, employers’ prejudices.
There is a huge difference, and you need to remember that.
Suppose you are completely deaf; you cannot hear, even with
technological augmentation. If you are considering a job that requires
acute hearing, then that is a disability: it means there are certain skills you
don’t have that are essential for doing that job.
But now let us suppose you can hear perfectly, but you are way
overweight. If you are applying for that same job, overweight is not a
disability unless it interferes with your ability to do that work. Nonetheless
a particular employer may be prejudiced against overweight people, and
simply won’t hire you, even though this has nothing to do with your ability
to do the job. So, there you have the difference: a disability is something
within you. A prejudice is something within the employer.
Both may technically be handicaps, because both may keep you from
getting hired, but it is important to understand that a real handicap is a
disability you have—it may be that you simply cannot do some important
task required in that particular job. On the other hand, a prejudice is a
phantom handicap. It may raise its ugly head in one particular interview or
more, but if you keep on going, find the right employer, then poof! the so-
called handicap vanishes.
You must just be sure you don’t share those prejudices. That is, don’t
look at yourself through their eyes. Look at yourself through your own
eyes.
The Key Employer Prejudices
1. Out of work too long. The employer prejudice that is getting all the
attention currently, relates to how long you’ve been out of work. We
saw this in chapter 1. It is a prejudice that some employers have, and
some employers don’t. If you’ve been out of work a year or more,
you will find employers who won’t hire you because of it. Too bad!
Just keep going until you find employers who don’t have that
prejudice. For a list of some of them who have promised to hire even
the long-term unemployed, see http://big.​assets.​huffingtonpost.​
com/​est_practices_recruiting_longterm_unemployed.​pdf.
2. Racial, religious, or sexual stereotypes. Some employers are
prejudiced on sight, against blacks, or Muslims, or Mexicans, or
Asians, or Native Americans, or gays, or transgender or—well, you
name it, some employers won’t hire “such people.” You’d think that
in this day and age, such prejudices would have been stamped out,
long ago. Sad to say, No. It’s only some employers, but unfortunately
the prejudiced are often very crafty. “Antidiscrimination laws” won’t
stop them. They have figured their way around everything. They often
justify their prejudice with stereotypes that are demonstrably false.
3. Age. The next employer prejudice that you may run into is age.
Reason? Millions of baby boomers (the 76 million people born 1946–
1964) are beginning to enter the so-called retirement years. A lot of
us are not going to find generous pensions waiting when we hit sixty
or sixty-five, but are going to have to keep working long after we ever
thought we would have to. And how easy will it be to get hired at that
age? Guess! But again, your comfort must lie in the fact that this is a
prejudice, not a handicap: some employers won’t be prejudiced that
you are as old as you are, if they see you are still on fire with passion
about what you do, not merely marking time between now and then.
The related employer prejudice that is rearing its ugly head these
days concerns money. Given all your years of experience, many who
are job-hunting over fifty, expect a salary befitting all their years of
experience and wisdom, only to discover that some employers are
prejudiced against paying that much—since they could hire two less-
experienced workers in their twenties for what it would cost them to
hire just us.
And yet, despite this prejudice, there are still employers out there
who will hire you, regardless of how old you are, if…(and here we
have a lot of “if”s—all of which lie within your control, thank
heaven):
They will hire you IF you choose to approach a small company
and they don’t have to put you late into a pension plan; and
They will hire you IF you come with a positive attitude toward
your aging. For example, thinking of your current age not in terms of
work but in terms of music—particularly a symphony. A symphony,
traditionally, has four movements, as they’re called. So does Life.
There is the first movement, infancy; then the second movement, the
time of learning; the long third movement follows, the time of
working; and finally, a fourth movement. It is traditionally spoken of,
in terms of work: hence, we call it retirement. It is much better to
think of it as the Fourth Movement, a triumphant, powerful ending to
the symphony of our life here on Earth. Go listen to Beethoven’s
Third Symphony, the Eroica; and
They will hire you IF you convey energy, even in this period of
your life. Ask any employer what they are looking for, when they
interview a job candidate who is fifty years or older, and they will tell
you: energy. Okay, but where shall we find energy, after fifty? When
we were younger, energy came from the physical side of our nature.
We were “feeling our oats,” as they say. We could go all day, and all
night. “My, where do you get all your energy?” our grandmother
would ask us. We were a dynamo of physical energy. But after fifty,
physical energy may be harder to come by, despite workouts,
exercise, and marathons. Increasingly, our energy must spring not
from our muscles but from our excitement about Life; there are
inevitably some employers dying to have that excitement in their
organization; and
They will hire you IF you have done some life/work planning, and
you know alternative ways to describe who you are and what you can
do, because you did the homework on Who You Are, in chapter 8;
and
They will hire you IF you keep going on interviews until you
encounter an employer or two who isn’t prejudiced about your age.
What do I mean by keep going? Well, here is one successful job-
hunter’s actual records (the “process” she is referring to, is Daniel
Porot’s PIE Method, described at the end of this chapter):
Here are the figures you wanted: In the course of my surveying,
September through November, I was referred to 120+ people. Of
these I contacted 84 and actually met with 50. I met most people at
their offices, a few for lunch, a couple for dinner, and one for
breakfast! The process worked so well for me, I am really excited
about my new prospects.
Job-hunting success, regardless of your age, often requires this
kind of persistence, keeping at it, keeping at it, keeping at it, working
at your job-hunt far longer and far harder than the average job-hunter
would ever dream of doing, because you know you will be valuable
to any organization that is able to see you clearly, without prejudice.
4. Returning veterans. Next employer prejudice: hiring returning
vets. According to a recent survey, 44% of returning vets do not feel
their military skills and training are respected by employers. Well,
let’s face it: some—but only “some”—employers are prejudiced
against hiring returning vets. They’ve seen one too many headlines
about PTSD, even though four out of five returning vets do not have
post-traumatic stress disorder. Fortunately, there are other employers
who know this, and are actually prejudiced in favor of hiring
returning vets.
5. Ex-offenders. Next employer prejudice: hiring ex-offenders. When
you run into any employer prejudice, what you should do is Google it
by name on the Internet, and see what you turn up. You may discover
some very useful advice, strategies, or resources. This is the case if
you are (or you work with) an ex-offender.
There are a number of little books to help. For example, Mark
Drevno has written a book for ex-offenders called Jails to Jobs:
Seven Steps to Becoming Employed (2014). Mark will send readers of
Parachute an electronic version of his book for free, if they will just
email him at info@jailstojobs.​org requesting same, and mentioning
that you are a reader of Parachute. He also runs a public charity
called Jails to Jobs, which has a website called (you guessed it) www.​
jailstojobs.​org, which gives step-by-step help with finding
employment. There Mark has a Tattoo Removal Directory, which is
helpful for anyone who feels their tattoos are keeping them from
getting a job, and want them removed. Mark also has a new book,
Tattoo Removal: Establishing a Free or Low-Cost Community-Based
Program. There are 214 such programs in 38 states, already. Anyone
who wants to start a community program, can secure a free electronic
version of this book, by emailing Mark and mentioning they saw this
mentioned in Parachute.
There is also a free 67-page workbook that you can print out from
your computer. It is called the STEP AHEAD Workbook, and was
produced with funding from the Minnesota Department of
Corrections. Currently it is sponsored by Minnesota State Colleges
and Universities: http://www.​iseek.​org/​iseek/​static/​STEP-AHEAD-
Workbook.​pdf.
But the most detailed help I know of, is from a man named Dick
Gaither. He is head of Job Search Training Systems in Indiana, and
has worked a lot with ex-offenders over many years. Send Dick an
email at workwizard@aol.​com asking for his Ex-Offender
Training Packet, and he will send you a 255-page e-book that you
can download, and even print out—the first 102 pages of which are
exclusively for ex-offenders. This is an incredibly helpful resource,
and…it’s free. A great public service, from a tremendous human
being.
6. Former patients (psychiatric or mental hospitals). Next employer
prejudice: hiring ex–mental patients. According to Time, 19% of
U.S. adults had a mental illness in the past year. That doesn’t
necessarily mean that they were hospitalized, but it does mean they
had serious problems.1 And probably overcame them. The same
general comments that I made above, apply here. The only questions
an employer need ask are: “What skills are needed to do this job, and
does this man or woman have them?” and “Does this person get along
well with other people?” With employers, this is a prejudice, not a
handicap; as a job-hunter, just keep going until you find an employer
who is not prejudiced.
7. Others. There is hardly a group you can name that does not face
prejudice from some employers. That’s because employers are human
beings, glorious in their individuality and lamentable in their
humannesss, including their prejudices. Employers vary greatly.
There are employers good and kind, and employers who aren’t.
Personally, I draw comfort from all the employers I run into who are
a credit to the human race. Here is a letter I got from a successful job-
hunter2 recently:
As we went along in the interview, some of the things the employer
told me were, “I’m very flexible with schedules. I want to put
people in activities that I know they’ll be the best in, but that means
that some weeks you’re scheduled for three evening shifts. If that’s
ever a problem, I really want you to tell me, because I can fix it.
I’m also a firm believer that you need to be at your absolute best
before you can pour into people here. That means, if you get really
stressed out, I want you to tell me. Just yesterday one of our
employees came to me and said, ‘I’m so overwhelmed right now!’
So I sat down with her and we moved some stuff around. Now, that
also means that we are extremely team-oriented. If someone cannot
take a shift because something is going on at home, everyone needs
to be willing to take that up sometimes. But, you always know that
everyone here is willing to do the same for you. Also, when we’re
stressed we seem to resort to silliness.” I knew immediately that
this was the place for me….
The Last Handicap: Shyness
During the whole job-hunt, what’s going to torpedo you most? What
handicap is king? Well, shyness is near the top of the list. Call it anything
else if you want to—low self-esteem, fear, anxiety, nervousness, sweating
—but shyness it is, and shyness it remains. Often, we, the unemployed,
who may be absolute experts at connecting and communicating with
faceless people on the Internet—through computer games, apps, Facebook,
LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, and other social media—suddenly turn to
jelly when we have to go face-to-face with people.
Shy. A lot of us would never think to use that word to describe
ourselves. But surveys have found that as many as 75% of us have been
painfully shy at some point in our lives. Many of us still are. (This always
comes as a great surprise to my European friends, because they picture
Americans as assertive, aggressive, and similar words. And sure, some of
us are; but that’s not who most of us are, especially when we’re out of
work, and have go sit across the desk from employers, face-to-face. I
myself have been painfully shy, much of my life. But no one ever guesses.)
So, what to do if we are shy and feel utterly unequipped to deal with all
the social interaction we’re going to have to do during our job-hunt? There
is an answer, and a method that works. First, a bit of history.
John Crystal often ran into this problem. So John suggested that the way
anyone cures themselves of shyness is through enthusiasm. If you’re
talking with someone, for example, and you are enthusiastic about the
topic under discussion, you will forget that you are shy, in your
excitement. Everything depends on what you’re talking about, and how
you feel about that topic.
So, he said, if you’re shy, only go after a job you feel really enthusiastic
about. Seek information only about a curiosity that you feel enthusiastic
about the prospect of learning the answer to. And so on. And so forth.
John followed this up by inventing a practical three-stage plan of action,
to cure job-hunters of shyness. Those who have followed John’s advice in
this regard have had a success rate of 86% in overcoming their shyness
and fears, and finding a job.
Daniel Porot subsequently took John’s system, and organized it. He
observed that John was really recommending three types of interviews, as I
noted in chapter 4:
Interviews for employment.
But preceded, necessarily, by interviewing just for information, which
—among other things—is a warm-up for employment interviews.
And this was preceded by practice interviewing, which—among other
things—is a warm-up for information interviews.
Each type of interview prepares for the next; and there you have it: a
three-stage plan, for overcoming shyness.
Daniel, who has been Europe’s premiere job-hunting expert for decades,
organized this into an attractive and well-thought-out chart; and gave it its
now famous name: “The PIE Method,” which has helped thousands of job-
hunters and career-changers all around the world with their shyness and
with their job-hunt.3
Why is it called “PIE”?
P    is for the warm-up phase. John Crystal named this warm-up “The
Practice Field Survey.” Daniel Porot calls it P for pleasure.
I    is for “Informational Interviewing.”
E    is for the employment interview with the-person-who-has-the-
power-to-hire-you.
Copyright © 1986 by D. Porot. Used by special permission. Not to be reproduced
without permission in writing from D. Porot.
Click here to download a PDF of The PIE Method Chart.
How do you use this P for practice to get comfortable about going out
and talking to people one-on-one?
This is achieved by choosing a topic—any topic, however silly or trivial
—that is a pleasure for you to talk about with your friends, or family. To
avoid anxiety, it should not be connected to any present or future careers
that you are considering. Rather, the kinds of topics that work best, for this
exercise, are:
a hobby you love, such as skiing, bridge playing, exercise, computers,
etc.
any leisure-time enthusiasm of yours, such as a movie you just saw,
that you liked a lot
a longtime curiosity, such as how do they predict the weather, or what
policemen do
an aspect of the town or city you live in, such as a new shopping mall
that just opened
an issue you feel strongly about, such as the homeless, AIDS
sufferers, ecology, peace, health, returning veterans, etc.
There is only one condition about choosing a topic: it should be
something you love to talk about with other people; a subject you know
nothing about, but you feel a great deal of enthusiasm for, is far preferable
to something you know an awful lot about, but it puts you to sleep.
Having identified your enthusiasm, you then need to go talk to someone
who is as enthusiastic about this thing, as you are. For best results with
your later job-hunt, this should be someone you don’t already know. Use
the Yellow Pages, ask around among your friends and family, Who do you
know that loves to talk about this? It’s relatively easy to find the kind of
person you’re looking for.
You love to talk about skiing? Try a ski-clothes store, or a skiing
instructor. You love to talk about writing? Try a professor on a nearby
college campus, who teaches English. You love to talk about physical
exercise? Try a trainer, or someone who does physical therapy.
Once you’ve identified someone you think shares your enthusiasm, you
then go talk with them.
When you are face-to-face with your fellow enthusiast, the first thing
you must do is relieve their understandable anxiety. Everyone has had
someone visit them who has stayed too long, who has worn out their
welcome. If your fellow enthusiast is worried about you staying too long,
they’ll be so preoccupied with this fear that they won’t hear a word you are
saying.
So, when you first meet them, ask for ten minutes of their time, only.
Period. Stop. Exclamation point. And watch your time like a hawk, using
your watch or smartphone timer, as I explained in chapter 4.
Okay, you’re there. What to talk about? Well, a topic may have its own
unique set of questions. For example, I love movies and TV, so if I met
someone who shared this interest, my first question would be, “What
movies or shows have you seen lately?” Or, “What do you think of Game
of Thrones?” Or, “Who’s your favorite actress?” And so on.
If it’s a topic you love, and often talk about, you’ll know what kinds of
questions you begin with. But, if no questions come to mind, your fallback
position is the following ones, which have proved to be good conversation
starters for thousands of job-hunters and career-changers before you, no
matter what their topic or interest.
Addressed to the person you’re doing the Practice Interviewing with:
How did you get involved with/become interested in this? (“This” is
the hobby, curiosity, aspect, issue, or enthusiasm, that you are so
interested in.)
What do you like the most about it?
What do you like the least about it?
Who else would you suggest I go talk to who shares this interest?
Can I use your name?
May I tell them it was you who recommended that I talk with them?
Then, choosing one person from the list of several names they may
have given you, you say, “Well, I think I will begin by going to talk to
this person. Would you be willing to call ahead for me, so they will
know who I am, when I go over there?”
Incidentally, it’s perfectly okay for you to take someone with you during
this Practice Interviewing—preferably someone who is more outgoing
than you feel you are. And on the first few interviews, let them take the
lead in the conversation, while you watch to see how they do it.
Once it is your turn to conduct these Practice Interviews, it will usually
be easy for you to figure out what to talk about.
Alone or with someone, keep at this Practice Interviewing until you feel
very much at ease in talking with people and asking them questions about
things you are curious about.
In all of this, as you’re trying to conquer shyness, fun is the key. If
you’re having fun, you’re doing it right. That depends, of course, on how
enthusiastic you are, about what you’re exploring.
If you’re not having fun, you need to keep at it, until you are. It may
take seeing four people. It may take ten. Or twenty. You’ll know. Once
you’re comfortable with Practice Interviewing, you’ll be ready to move on
9.to the next step, Informational Interviewing, which I discussed in chapter
In Conclusion: Self-Esteem Versus
Egotism
As most of us know, the proper attitude toward ourselves is called “good
self-esteem.” But self-esteem is an art. An art of balance. A balance
between thinking too little of ourselves, and thinking too much of
ourselves.
The name for thinking too much of ourselves is “egotism.” We have all
run into that, at some point in our lives, so we know what it looks like.
Some of us have even caught a passing glimpse of it in the mirror.
In our culture and others, we are taught to recoil from this in horror. We
even have mythologies warning us against it; the story of Narcissus comes
to 
mind. 
Poor 
guy! 
(See 
https://en.​wikipedia.​org/​wiki/​
Narcissus_(mythology) if you are unfamiliar with the myth.)
In order to avoid egotism, a lot of us go way overboard in the other
direction. We shrink from ever declaring that we have any virtue, any
excellency, any special gifts, lest we be accused of boasting. And so we
fall into that opposite pit from egotism, namely, ingratitude. We appear
ungrateful for the gifts that life, the universe, God—you name it—has
already given us.
So, how do we adopt the proper attitude toward our gifts—speaking of
them honestly, humbly, gratefully—without sounding egotistical?
Just this: the more you see your own gifts clearly, the more you must
pay attention to the gifts that others have.
The more sensitive you become to how unusual you are, the more you
must become sensitive to how unusual those around you are.
The more you pay attention to yourself, the more you must pay attention
to others.
The more you ponder the mystery of You, the more you must ponder the
mystery of all those you encounter, every loved one, every friend, every
acquaintance, every stranger.
People from other cultures will tell you about “the tall poppy” theory of
life, with its implication that you shouldn’t stand taller than others in your
field. That has a lot of truth to it. But you make yourself equal to others not
by lowering yourself but by raising them.
Pay attention to others. What are the favorite skills of your best friend or
mate? Do you know? Are you sure? Have you asked them what they think
they are? Have you complimented them on these skills, during the past
week? Start now!
Just remember, it’s no sin to praise yourself as long as that heightens
your awareness of what there is to praise in others.
1. Time, March 16, 2015, p. 24.
2. Kayla DeVitto.
3. Daniel has summarized his system in a book published here in the U.S. in 1996: it
is called The PIE Method for Career Success: A Unique Way to Find Your Ideal
Job, published by JIST Works, Inc. It is now basically out of print but can be found
used on Amazon.​com, BarnesandNoble.​com, or Alibris.​com for as little as $5.65
plus shipping. Daniel has a wonderful website at www.​porot.​com/​en.
 
What is success?
To laugh often and much;
To win the respect of intelligent people
and the affection of children;
To earn the appreciation of honest critics
and endure the betrayal of false friends;
To appreciate beauty;
To find the best in others;
To leave the world a bit better, whether by
a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition;
To know even one life has breathed
easier because you have lived;
This is to have succeeded.
—Bessie Anderson Stanley (1879–1952)
Traditionally attributed to Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803–1882)
CHAPTER 11
The Five Ways to
Choose/Change Careers
The First Way to Choose/Change Careers:
THE INTERNET
The first idea that occurs to people seeking guidance on how to choose or
change careers, these days, is the Internet. Naturally, there is lots of advice
there, but more specifically there is O*Net Online, which I mentioned in
chapter 8. It is a digital, online treasure house of information, and up-to-
date information at that, about careers.
Go to the site and you will see (www.​onetonline.​org/​find or www.​
onetonline.​org/​search). Suggested careers (or occupations) are grouped or
classified by any or all of the following: industries in great demand; green
economies; largest number of openings anticipated; STEM disciplines
(that would be Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math); amount of
preparation or training required; O*NET-SOC codes; Military Occupation
Classification (equivalencies); abilities required; occupational knowledge
required; interests, skill sets, work values, and work activities required;
values you want at work; tasks and duties involved; tools, technology,
machines, equipment, and software used; and so on.
Once you find an occupation you want to know more about, they have a
specially developed Content Model (www.​onetcenter.​org/​content.​html),
which can run ten to twelve pages of print-outs for each occupation.
Maintained by the U.S. government’s Department of Labor, it is very
thorough, but at the same time (hate to say it), limited. Chief among its
limitations is the fact that while its predecessor, The Dictionary of
Occupational Titles, Fourth Edition, covered 12,741 occupations, O*Net
covers only 900 or so.1 Their claim is that the D.O.T. (as it’s called) was
for a manufacturing age, while O*Net is for an information age.
Anyway, this decision to just cover 900 or so, leaves a lot of careers,
occupations, and jobs uncovered and unmentioned.2 Still, you may find a
lot of very helpful stuff, there.
The Second Way to Choose/Change
Careers:
TESTS
They’re technically not “tests.” Their real name is instruments, or
assessments. But we’ll use the popular name for them, here.
I’m not sure how well they’ll help you choose a new career, but you will
find them everywhere: in books, on the Internet, in the offices of guidance
counselors, or vocational psychologists, career coaches, etc. And
sometimes this turns out to be exactly the kind of guidance, the kind of
insight, the kind of direction, that career choosers or changers are looking
for.
But why only sometimes? Why doesn’t this search for a magic bullet
always work? Aha! Good question! Since I’ve watched these tests literally
for decades, I can share with you my:
Six Learnings About Testing
1. You are absolutely unique. There is no person in the world like
you. It follows from this that no test can measure YOU; it can
only describe the family to which you belong.
Tests tend to divide the population into what we might call groups,
tribes, or families—made up of all those people who answered the
test the same way. After you’ve taken any test, don’t ever say to
yourself, “This must be who I am.” (No, no, this must be who your
family am.)
I grew up in the Bolles family (surprise!) and they were all very
“left-brained.” I was a maverick in that family. I was right-brained.
Fortunately, my father was an immensely loving man, who found this
endearing. When I told him the convoluted way by which I went
about figuring out something, he would respond with a hearty
affectionate laugh, and a big hug, as he said: “Dick, I will never
understand you.” Tests are about families, not individuals. The results
of any test are descriptors—not of you, but of your family—i.e., all
those who answered the test the same way you did. The SAI family.
Or the blue family. Or the INTJ family. Or whatever. The results are
an accurate description of that family of people, in general; but are
they descriptors also of you? Depends on whether or not you are a
maverick in that family, the same way I was in mine. These family
characteristics may or may not be true in every respect to you. You
may be exactly like that group, or you may be different in important
ways.
2. Don’t try to figure out ahead of time how you want the test to
come out. Stay loose and open to new ideas.
It’s easy to develop an emotional investment that the test should
come out a certain way. I remember a job-hunting workshop where I
asked everyone to list the factors they liked about any place where
they had ever lived, and then prioritize those factors, to get the name
of a new place to live. We had this immensely lovable woman from
Texas in the workshop, and when we all got back together after a
“break” I asked her how she was doing. With a glint in her eye she
said, “I’m prioritizing, and I’m gonna keep on prioritizin’, until it
comes out: Texas!” That was amusing, as she intended it to be; it’s
not so amusing when you try to make the test results come out a
certain way. If you’re gonna take tests, you need to be open to new
ideas. If you find yourself always trying to outguess the test, so it will
confirm you on a path you’ve already decided upon, then testing is
not for you.
3. In taking a test, you should just be looking for clues, hunches, or
suggestions, rather than for a definitive answer that says “this is
what you must choose to do with your life.”
And bear in mind that an online test isn’t likely to be as insightful
as one administered by an experienced psychologist or counselor,
who may see things that you can’t. But keep saying this mantra to
yourself, as you read or hear the test results: “Clues. Clues, I’m only
looking for clues.”
4. Take several tests and not just one. One can easily send you down
the wrong path.
People who do a masters or doctorate program in “Testing and
Measurement” know that tests are notoriously flawed, unscientific,
and inaccurate. Sometimes tests are more like parlor games than
anything else. Basing your future on tests’ outcomes is like putting
your trust in the man behind the curtain in The Wizard of Oz.
5. In good career planning, you’re trying, in the first instance, to
broaden your horizons, and only later narrow your options down;
you are not trying to narrow them down from the outset.
Bad career planning looks like this illustration below.
Most computerized tests embody the idea of starting with a wide
range of options, and narrowing them down. So, each time you
answer a question, you narrow down the number of options. For
example, if you say, “I don’t like to work outdoors,” immediately all
outdoor jobs are eliminated from your consideration, etc., etc.
A model of good career planning looks like this illustration
(below), instead.
Good career-choice or career-planning postpones the “narrowing
down,” until it has first broadened your horizons, and expanded the
number of options you are thinking about. For example, you’re in the
newspaper business; but have you ever thought of teaching, or
drawing, or doing fashion? You first expand your mental horizons, to
see all the possibilities, and only then do you start to narrow them
down to the particular two or three that interest you the most.
So, what’s a good test? All together now: a test that broadens to
show you new possibilities for your life.
And, what’s a bad test? Again, all together: a test that narrows the
possibilities for your life. Often this is the result of a counselor’s
interpretation of a test, or rather misinterpretation.
I’ll give you an example: I met a man who, many years before, had
taken the Strong Inventory. He was told, by his counselor, that this
inventory measured that man’s native gifts or aptitudes. And, in his
particular case, the counselor said, the inventory revealed he had no
mechanical aptitude whatsoever. For years thereafter, this man told
me, “I was afraid to even pick up a hammer, for fear of maiming
myself. But there finally came a time in my life when my house
needed aluminum siding, desperately, and I was too poor to hire
anyone else to do it for me. So I decided I had to do it myself,
regardless of what the test said. I climbed the ladder, and expected to
fail. Instead, it was a glorious experience! I had never enjoyed myself
so much in my whole life. I later found out that the counselor was
wrong. The inventory didn’t measure aptitudes; it only measured
current interests. Now, today, if I could find that counselor, I would
wring his neck with my own bare hands, as I think of how much of
my life he ruined with his misinterpretation of that test.”
6. Testing will always have “mixed reviews.”
On the one hand, you can run into successful men and women who
will tell you they took this or that test twenty years ago, and it made
all the difference in their career direction and ultimate success. On the
other hand, there are the horror stories.
If you want to explore testing in any depth, there is an excellent
course online, from S. Mark Pancer, at Wilfred Laurier University in
Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, which can be found at www.​wlu.​ca/​page.​
php?grp_id=265&p=2941. Pay special attention to Lectures 1 and
19.
If you like tests, help yourself. There are lots of them on the Internet.
Counselors can also give them to you, for a fee; if you want one, shop
around.
If you want to know where to start, you might try these tests, which are
the ones I personally like the best:
The Dewey Color System. Sure, this is essentially a parlor game, but I
like it anyway. In fact, I like it a lot. It’s based upon, or at least
indebted to, the Lüscher Color Test. It’s free, it takes about three
minutes, and consists of a series of pages (about 23 of them) with
colors on them, and you say which one is your favorite (or least
favorite) color on that page. Relevant occupations are then suggested.
Find the “test” at www.​deweycolorsystem.​com/​tests/​color-career-
counselor.
Dr. John Holland’s Self-Directed Search. We saw this already in
chapter 8 with the People petal (this page) but in case you don’t recall,
this is at www.​self-directed-search.​com and costs $9.95 to take
online.
eParachute’s JUMP Application. This is the creation of my own team.
It is a three-step process: Discover, Create, and Explore. It can be
found at www.​eParachute.​com, and costs $4.99 for a year’s
subscription.
The University of Missouri’s Career Interests Game, which can be
found at http://career.​missouri.​edu/​career-interest-game. This is
based on a shortened version of the Self-Directed Search, namely, my
“Party Exercise.” Well redesigned here.
If you want further suggestions, you can type “career tests” or
“personality tests” into Google, and see what turns up. You’ll find lots and
lots of stuff.
The Third Way to Choose/Change
Careers:
USING THE FLOWER EXERCISE
This pathway to choosing or changing your career is not very popular—
compared, say, to the Internet, because it requires a lot more time of you,
and a lot more work. I described it back in chapters 6, 7, 8, and 9 (in case
you’re skipping around in this book, and haven’t been there yet). It is a
careful, thorough, step-by-step process, for ensuring that you are choosing
a career that fits you like a glove: a dream career, or dream job, your
mission in life, as it is often called. It is not for the faint-hearted or the
lazy. But if the other ways to change careers don’t turn up any careers that
look interesting to you, you may end up being very grateful that there is
this way. I get letters like this all the time:
I have already benefited greatly from The Flower exercise. I
found hope in having a second alternative after doing the
homework….The series of life-changing activities in this book
has definitely helped me to better understand who I am, to
further appreciate my talents, and to utilize the resources I
have readily available.
So, just in case you haven’t looked at chapters 6, 7, 8, and 9 yet, let me
quickly rehearse here the steps involved in this way of choosing a new
career:
1. You do the Flower Exercise (chapter 8), which gives you the basic
building blocks of Who You Are, so you can match a career to You.
2. Then you put together on one piece of paper your five favorite
transferable skills, and your three favorite fields of knowledge, and
start informational interviewing (chapter 9) so as to find the names of
careers that fit those building blocks (or “petals”).
3. Along the way, you see if you can figure out how to combine your
three favorite fields into one career, so as to make yourself unique.
4. Then you “try on” the jobs to see if they fit You, by talking to actual
workers in the kind of career or careers you have tentatively picked
out.
5. Then you find out what kinds of organizations in the geographical
area that interests you (where you are already?) have such jobs.
6. Then you find out the names of actual organizations that interest you,
where you could do your most effective work.
THE SYSTEMATIC BREAKDOWN AND
BUILDING UP TO DEFINE A CAREER THAT
FITS YOU
Click here to download a PDF of The Systematic Breakdown and Building up to Define
a Career That Fits You Chart.
7. And, finally, you learn about those places before you walk in, or
secure an appointment to talk to them about working there, whether
or not they have a known vacancy at that moment.
The essence of what you’re doing here is: look at your past, break that
experience down into its most basic “atoms” (namely, skills), then build a
new career for the future from your favorite “atoms,” retracing your steps
from the bottom up, in the exact opposite direction. This is illustrated in
the model on this page.
The Fourth Way to Choose/Change
Careers:
CHANGING A CAREER IN TWO STEPS
This is not so much a way to identify a new career, as a way to move into
that career, once you have figured out where you want to go next. This is a
plan that has worked very well for many career-changers: changing careers
in two steps, not one.
And how exactly do you do that?
THREE TYPES OF CAREER-CHANGE,
VISUALIZED
Click here to download a PDF of the Three Types of Career Change Visualized
Diagram.
Well, let’s start with a definition: a job is a job-title in a field.
That means, a job has two parts: title and field. Title is really a symbol
for what you do. Field is where you do it, or what you do it with.
A dramatic career-change typically involves trying to change both at the
same time. It’s what’s called Difficult Path in the diagram on this page.
Problem with trying to take this difficult path is that you can’t claim any
prior experience. But if you do it in two steps, ah! That’s different.
Let’s say you are presently an accountant working for a television
network, and you want to make a career-change. You want to become a
reporter on new medical developments.
If you try the Difficult Path on the previous page, if you go out into the
job-market as the first—accountant in the television industry—and you try
to jump to a new career as the second—reporter in medicine—well, that’s
a pretty large jump. Of course, sometimes you can pull that off, with a bit
of luck and a huge number of links on LinkedIn, friends on Facebook, or
followers on Twitter.
But what if?
What if that doesn’t work? Then you’re likely to run into the following
scenario:
Interviewer: “So, I see you want to be a reporter. Were you ever a
reporter before?” Your answer: No.
Interviewer: “And I see you want to be in the medical field. Were you
ever in the medical field before?” Your answer: No.
End of story. You are toast.
On the other hand, if you were to change only one of these at a time—
field or job-title—you could always claim prior experience.
In the diagram on the previous page, let’s say you move from A to B to
D, over a period of three years, and in two steps.
Interviewer during your first move (a change just in your field): “Were
you ever in this kind of work before?” Your answer: “Yes, I’ve been an
accountant for x number of years.”
Interviewer during your second move (a change now in your job-title):
“Were you ever in this kind of work before?” Your answer: “Yes, I’ve
been in medicine for x number of years.”
Another example: Let’s say in that diagram, you make a different set of
two moves over a period of three years: you move from A to C to D.
Interviewer during your first move (a change just in your job-title):
“Were you ever in this kind of work before?” Your answer: “Yes, I’ve been
in television for x number of years.”
Interviewer during your second move (a change just in your field):
“Have you ever done this kind of work before?” Your answer: “Yes, I’ve
been a reporter for x number of years.”
By doing career-change in two steps, each time you make a move you
are able to legitimately claim that you’ve had prior experience.
Needless to say, your likelihood of getting hired each time has just
increased tremendously.
The Fifth Way to Choose/Change Careers:
FINDING OUT WHAT THE JOB-MARKET WILL
NEED
With a run of just plain bad luck, you may have used all four previous
ways of finding or changing careers, but nothing worked. You’re stuck.
Your needs or wishes are dying on the vine.
Well, then be glad there is this fifth way of changing careers. It is not
based on your needs or wishes, but on projections about the coming needs
and wishes of the job-market, during the present decade, 2015–2025. It
starts at the opposite end: not what you want, but what the market wants.
Technically called “Projections,” they are also called Hot Jobs, though
I’d take that with a grain of salt, if I were you.
There are dozens of such lists (just Google hot jobs) but take what you
read, wherever you read it, not with just a grain of salt, but with a barrel.3
“Projections” is just a nice word for “guesses.” The way that some of these
guys and gals decide what constitutes a “hot job” would make your hair
stand on end. I know; I’ve talked with them. Sometimes, they just choose a
title because it sounds new, strange, or exotic. For example, the most
common occupation in the U.S. is truck driver, but would you know that,
from this list of “hot jobs”? This is from CBS News:4
1. Data Scientist
2. Development & Operations (DevOps) Engineer
3. Data Engineer
4. Tax Manager
5. Analytics Manager
6. Human Resources (HR) Manager
7. Database Administrator
8. Strategy Manager
9. User Experience (UX) Designer
10. Solutions Architect
11. Marketing Manager
The U.S. government gets into this projections game—though on a more
sophisticated level—with their Occupational Outlook Handbook 2016–
2017, which you can find on Amazon or Barnes & Noble, online (it’s
about twenty bucks), or at your local library, or online at www.​bls.​gov/​
ooh. Here you can browse careers/occupations by occupational group,
number of new jobs projected to be available, faster-than-average job
growth projected, level of education or training required, median pay, etc.
Oh, and it has a lovely feature called “similar occupations.” That’s great if
for any reason you don’t qualify for some job that otherwise really
fascinates you.
Conclusion:
EIGHT CAUTIONS ABOUT
CHOOSING/CHANGING CAREERS
Whenever you have to choose or change a career, here are eight cautions
to keep in mind. (Many of these you’re already aware of, I’m sure; this is
just a reminder.)
1. Go for any career that seems fascinating or even interesting to you.
But first talk to people who are already doing that work, to find out if
the career or job is as great as it seems at first impression. Ask them:
What do you like best about this work? What do you like least about
this work? And, how did you get into this work? This last question,
which sounds like mere cheeky curiosity, actually can give you
important clues about how you could get into this line of work or
career, yourself. Ask them how they perceive their career: what are its
component parts. Every man and woman may see their vocation in
a different light. Don’t assume that the way the person you are
interviewing defines it, is the way you must, also. Beneath any
job-title, there is often lots of room for you to maneuver and
define that job in a way that uniquely suits you, your gifts, and
your creativity. One architect, for example, may perceive his or her
vocation in a different way from another architect. When Frei Otto
received the Pritzker Prize posthumously in March of 2015, it was
said of him, “he…embraced a definition of architect to include
researcher, inventor, form-finder, engineer, builder, teacher,
collaborator, 
environmentalist, 
humanist, 
and 
creator 
of
memorable…spaces.” He was inspired by “natural phenomena—
from birds’ skulls to soap bubbles and spiders’ webs.”5
2. In moving from one career to another, make sure that you preserve
constancy in your life as well as change, during the transition. In
other words, don’t change everything. Remember the words of
Archimedes about his mythical long lever: Give me a fulcrum and a
place to stand, and with a lever I will move the Earth.6 You need a
firm place to stand, when you are moving your life around you, and
that place is provided by the things that stay constant about you: your
character, your faith, your values, your gifts or immutable skills.
3. If you can, you’ll do better to start with yourself and what you want,
rather than with the job-market, and what’s “hot.” The difference is
“enthusiasm” and “passion.” Yours. You’re much more attractive to
employers when you’re on fire. Maybe times are just too tough where
you are, to start with your vision of what you want to do with your
life, for now, anyway; but try.
4. The best work, the best career, for you, the one that makes you
happiest and most fulfilled, is going to be one that uses: your favorite
transferable skills, in your favorite subjects, fields, or special
knowledges, in a job that offers you your preferred people-
environments, your preferred working conditions, with your
preferred salary or other rewards, working toward your preferred
goals and values. This requires thorough inventory of who you are.
Detailed instructions are to be found back in chapter 8.
5. The more time and thought you can give to the choosing of a new
career, the better your choice is going to be. There is a penalty for
seeking “quick and dirty” fixes.
6. If you are young, or relatively young, it’s okay to make a mistake, in
your choice. Bucky Fuller used to always say that Man was the only
creature that learns primarily from making mistakes. You’ll have time
to correct a bad decision. Most of us will have at least three careers
during our lifetime, and eight or more jobs.
7. Choosing and then finding employment in a new career that you
really fancy, should feel like a fun task, as much as possible. The
more fun you’re having, the more this points to the likelihood that
you’re doing it right. To make it more fun, take a large piece of white
paper, and then with some colored pencils or pens draw a picture of
your ideal life: where you live, who’s with you, what you do, what
your dwelling looks like, what your ideal vacation looks like, etc.
Don’t let reality get in the way. Pretend a magic wand has been
waved over your life, and it gives you everything you think your ideal
life would be. Now, of course you’re going to tell me you can’t draw.
Okay, then make symbols for things, or create little “doodads,” with
labels—anything so that you can see all together on one page your
vision of your ideal life—however haltingly expressed.
The power of this exercise sometimes amazes me. Reason? By
avoiding words and using pictures or symbols as much as possible, it
bypasses the left side of the brain (“the safekeeping self,” as George
Prince calls it) and speaks directly to the right side of your brain (“the
experimental self”), whose job is to engineer change. Do fun things
like this, as you’re exploring a new life for yourself.
8. One final word of caution here: if you’re just graduating from high
school, don’t go get a college degree in some career field just because
you think that this will guarantee you a job! It will not.
I wish you could see my emails, filled with bitter letters from
people who believed this myth, went and got a degree in a field that
looked just great, thought it would be a snap to find a job, but are still
unemployed two years later. Good times or bad. They are bitter
(often), angry (always), and disappointed in a society that they feel
lied to them. Now that they have that worthless degree, and still can’t
find a job, they find a certain irony in the phrase, “Our country
believes in getting a job by degrees.” Law graduates have been
particularly in the news in recent years, suing their law school for
falsifying employment figures for graduates.
To avoid this costly mistake, what you must do is take the choosing
of a career into your own hands, with the help of this book, and then
explore the career you’ve chosen down to the last inch, find out if you
love it, and then go get your degree. Not because it guarantees a job,
but because you feel passion, enthusiasm, and energy with this
choice. You feel you have found the kind of life that other people
only dream of.
1. In case you care, a scholarly analysis of the limitations of O*Net by Robert J.
Harvey at Virginia Tech may be found by putting “Robert J. Harvey Construct
Validity” into your favorite search engine, and clicking on the first entry. To keep
up-to-date on what O*Net is doing, or has to offer, you can go to www.​onetonline.​
org/​help/​new.
2. Limited funds are cited by O*Net as a large part of the reason for this decision.
3. Put “10 Toughest Jobs to Fill” into your favorite search engine. You will turn up
such articles as www.​shrm.​org/​hrdisciplines/​staffingmanagement/​articles/​pages/​10-
toughest-jobs-to-fill-2016.​aspx.
4. “The Best 11 Jobs in America for 2017,” CBS Moneywatch, www.​cbsnews.​com/​
media/​the-best-11-jobs-in-america-for-2017.
5. Robin Pogrebin, “Pritzker Prize for Frei Otto, German Architect, Is Announced
After His Death,”New York Times, March 10, 2015.
6. Archimedes (ca. 235 BCE), Greek inventor, mathematician, and physicist. His
saying is here loosely paraphrased.
 
I do not think there is any thrill
That can go through the human heart
Like that felt by the inventor
As he sees some creation of the brain
Unfolding to success….
Such emotions make a man forget
Food, sleep, friends, love, everything.
—Nikola Tesla (1856–1943)
CHAPTER 12
How to Start Your Own Business
If your job-hunt isn’t going well, the idea may occur to you in some
moment of desperation: maybe I should stop trying to find jobs where I
work for someone else. Maybe I should start my own business.
Some people have always wished they didn’t have to work for someone
else, but could be their own boss. According to some surveys, up to 80%
of all workers toy with this idea at some point in their lives.1 People
dream. Maybe your dream is: I want to create a website where I can teach
people how to “go green,” and help preserve the environment. Or maybe
your dream is: I want to sell jewelry. Or maybe: I want to start my own
security service. Or maybe it is: I want to run my own bake shop, where I
can sell my own homemade bread and pies. Or: run a bed-and-breakfast
place. Or: grow lavender, and sell soap and perfume made from it. Or: be a
consultant to people who need my expertise, gathered in the business
world over many years. Or: I want to sell real estate. Stuff like that.
Or maybe you don’t have a dream. All you know is you don’t want to
work for someone else; you want to be your own boss. And you’re open to
any and all suggestions.
Is It as Difficult as We Are So Often Told?
Sometimes taking this step is easy. Sometimes it is super difficult. Let’s
consider a couple of real case histories.
Case History #1. A. J. was trained as a physical therapist. He had no
difficulty finding work, at local hospitals. But he fretted about always
being indoors; he wanted out. He considered his assets: he was a
skilled photographer, he was a good furniture finisher, and he loved
thrift shops and flea markets. So, to start, he taught himself to become
an expert on a certain period of furniture, and learned how much fans
of that furniture would pay for pieces from that period. He then began
to tour local thrift shops, flea markets, estate sales, and his local
Craigslist in his area, weekly, and looked for pieces that were for sale
at prices below their true worth. He bought the pieces, took them
home to his garage, finished them off so they looked beautiful, took
attractive well-lighted photos of them, and posted the photos, with
prices, on his local Craigslist (www.​craigslist.​org/​about/​sites). He
quickly became known for his expertise, and thereafter people
flocked to buy any furniture he displayed on the Internet. In fact, he
kept a local list of repeat buyers and would often email them a photo
of his latest finds, before listing the item publicly. Naturally, he
crafted a mark-up in price from what he had originally paid; and soon
he was making—and is still making—a very good living for himself
and his family. He is outdoors all the time.
Case History #2. C. W. was a homemaker, with a daughter in her teens.
The daughter belonged to an organization that sponsored an annual
collection in her small town of stuff that people no longer wanted. C.
W.’s daughter was one of those who did the pickup. On an appointed
Saturday, that organization then had a town-wide sale, of all the items
they had picked up. They made a considerable amount of money.
What they couldn’t sell, they took home, confident they would figure
out, in the future, what to do with it. The daughter brought home
about 150 books. They stored them temporarily, in a room just off the
living room. Visitors to that home would see the books, and say, “Oh,
this one looks interesting. What are you going to do with it?” You can
buy it, was the answer. Pretty soon, C. W. was doing a thriving
business in her home, as visitors picked over the books she had,
bought them, and often dropped off their own books that they no
longer wanted. Soon, the house was inadequate for the task, so C. W.
rented a storefront downtown, and titled it C. W.’s Used Books. She
created a website to advertise the kinds of books she had, her business
hours, etc. It became a thriving business.
Case History #3. R. J. was a returning veteran. She began by getting a job
doing programming for a large employer, then slowly decided she
wanted to go out on her own. She chose a field that she knew quite a
bit about, and started a website in that field. She used Google ads and
other vendors to monetize the site, and soon was making a decent
living as her website became the “go-to” place for people who wanted
the kind of information she had to offer.
These are real-life stories; I only changed the names to protect their
privacy.
You will notice, right away, some things that are common to these case
histories:
a) These people didn’t need a whole lot of money to launch their own
business.
b) They did have to do research, sometimes plenty of it, to make it work.
c) All three of them used the Internet to make their product, service, or
expertise, known.
d) None of them went down the traditional paths that people used to go
down, when considering self-employment, such as buying a franchise,
or being sucked in by one of those well-advertised “work-at-home”
projects that used to sound appetizing to the unwary. “Being self-
employed” wears quite a different face these days, compared to what it
used to.
So, now you’re reading this chapter, and you’re weighing the idea of
going out on your own, starting your own business, being your own boss.
Where do you start?
When You Have No Idea What Business
You Want to Go Into
Let’s assume you want to be your own boss, but you have no idea what
kind of business you want to have. How do you start? There are four steps,
that any thorough, intelligent person should faithfully follow: Write. Read.
Explore. Get Feedback.
WRITE
1. Begin with chapter 8 in this book: Don’t just read it. Do it! As I
repeat throughout this book, Who precedes What. First get a clearer
picture of Who you are, before you try to decide What you want to
do. Ultimately, what you decide to do should flow from who you
are. When done, look at your whole Flower Diagram and see if any
or all of the petals give you an idea for your own business.
2. Get out a piece of blank paper, and jot down any ideas. Use this same
piece of paper for any ideas that come to you, as you do the rest of
these steps. You want it all on one page. (Something to do with the
right side of your brain, and intuition.)
3. Then write your resume, if you haven’t already, answering all the
questions you will find in chapter 2, under the heading: A Starter Kit
for Writing Your Resume (this page). When done, read it all over,
and see if anything there gives you an idea for a business of your
own. It may be that you have been doing it for years—but in the
employ of someone else. But now, you’re thinking about doing this
kind of work for yourself, whether it be as an independent accountant,
massage therapist, business consultant, repair person, dance
instructor, home decorator, home care nurse, craftsperson, or
producer or seller of some kind of product or service. If so, add your
great idea on that piece of paper.
4. If nothing inspires you, try Daniel Pink’s prescription:2
a. Make a list of five things you are good at.
b. Then make a second list of five things you love to do.
c. Then make a third list of where the first two lists overlap.
d. Read that list. Ask yourself, “Will anyone pay me to do these
things?”
5. If you’re dying to be your own boss, but still have no idea what
business to go into, try this: go to O*Net (www.​onetonline.​org).
Click on Find Occupations, then, underneath it, click on Career
Cluster. Look at that list and see if any cluster appeals to you. Jot it
down on that piece of paper. Then go back to the home page and
under Advanced Search, click on Browse by O*Net Data. You will
see there are nine subheadings beneath that title: Abilities, Interests,
Knowledge, Skills, Work Activities, Work Context, Work Values,
Skills Search, and Tools and Technology. Click on each of those nine,
in turn, and jot down anything that proves to be attractive or
interesting, again, on that piece of paper.
READ
Hopefully, from all this thinking, and tasks, you will have some ideas. It
will be nice if you see the possibilities of three different business ventures.
But if there’s one of the three that you would really die to do, and you feel
passionate about it, then explore that one first. Second. And third!
Now, what you want to do next is read up on all the virtues and perils of
running your own business. Look before you leap! The Internet has tons of
stuff about this. For example:
Free Agent Nation
www.​workforce.​com/​articles/​dan-pink-interview-free-agent-
nation-evolves
Daniel Pink, before he became famous for such books as Drive and To
Sell Is Human, was the first to call attention to how many people were
refusing to work for any employer. He defined them as free agents. His
classic book was Free Agent Nation. His basic thesis: self-employment
has become a broader concept than it was in another age. The concept
now includes not only those who own their own business but also free
agents: independent contractors who work for several clients; temps
and contract employees who work each day through temporary
agencies; limited-timeframe workers who work only for a set time, as
on a project, then move on to another company; consultants; and so on.
This is a fascinating article to help you decide if you want to be a “free
agent.”
Working Solo
www.​workingsolo.​com/​resources/​resources.​html
This site gives you a whole bunch of resources if you decide to start
your own business.
Small Business Administration
www.​sba.​gov
The SBA has endured some bad press in recent years, but keep in mind
that it was established to help start, manage, and grow small
businesses. Lots of useful articles and advice are online, here. Click on
“Starting and Managing” at the top.
Business Owner’s Toolkit
www.​bizfilings.​com/​toolkit
Yikes, there is a lot of information here for the small business owner.
Everything about your business: starting, planning, financing,
marketing, hiring, managing, getting government contracts, taxes—all
that stuff, including any forms you will need to fill out.
The Business Owners’ Idea Café
www.​businessownersideacafe.​com/​starting_business/​index.php
Great, fun site for the small business owner. Lots of practical advice.
Nolo’s Business, LLCs & Corporations
www.​nolo.​com/​legal-encyclopedia/​business-llcs-corporations
Lots of practical nitty-gritty stuff here: laws, forms, contracts, and
resources needed if you start your own business.
Home Businesses3
www.​ahbbo.​com/​archives.​html
To help you make your own home business succeed, this is a great site,
with lots of information for you. There are hundreds of articles here.
EXPLORE
Let’s hope that now you have some idea for starting your own business.
But you know that a lot of start-ups, online and off, don’t make it. You
want to avoid this happening to you. You want to interview others who
have started the same kind of business, so you don’t make the same
mistakes they did. Your exploring, then, should have three steps to it,
summarized by this simple formula:
A – B = C
To explain:
You must find out what skills, knowledge, or experience it takes to
make this kind of business idea work, by interviewing several business
owners. This is List “A.”
Then you need to make a list of the skills, knowledge, or experience that
you have. This is List “B.” Then by subtracting “B” from “A,” you will
arrive at a list of skills, etc., that are required for success in such a
business, that you don’t have. And you must then go out and hire or co-opt
a friend or mate or volunteer who has those skills you are lacking (at the
moment, anyway). This is List “C.”
I will explain these three steps in a little more detail:
You prepare for these lists by first writing out in as much detail as you
can just exactly what kind of business you are thinking about starting. Do
you want to be a freelance writer, or a craftsperson, or a consultant,
independent 
screenwriter, 
copywriter, 
digital 
artist, 
songwriter,
photographer, illustrator, interior designer, videographer, film person,
filmmaker, counselor, therapist, plumber, electrician, agent, soap maker,
bicycle repairer, public speaker, or what?
Then you interview people already doing the kind of work you’d like to
do. You should approach this exploration, having found at least three
names. Find them through your favorite Internet search engine, or from
LinkedIn, Yelp, the Yellow Pages, the Chambers of Commerce, or various
smartphone apps. When you talk to them, you explain that you’re
exploring the possibility of starting your own business, similar to theirs,
and would they mind sharing something of their own history. You ask
them what skills, knowledge, or experience they think are necessary to
making this kind of business successful.
These days, everyone’s preference is to do such interviewing by email. I
think this is a big mistake. Face-to-face is to be preferred, in every case.
Try businesspeople in a city that’s an hour’s drive away. They are not as
likely to see you as a potential competitor, unless you’re both going to
compete with each other head-to-head on the Internet. You want them first
of all to tell you something of the history of their business, how they got
started, what kinds of challenges they encountered, what kinds of
mistakes. Face-to-face they may tell you more about the challenges they
ran into, the obstacles and pitfalls they encountered, than they ever would
in an email; and you want this information, believe me you do, so that you
can avoid making the same missteps if you decide to start a similar
business. (No need for you to step on the same land mines that they did.)
You also want them to help you compile a list of the necessary skills,
knowledge, and experience they think are essential for the type of business
they’re doing, and you’re thinking of doing.
When you have a list you’re satisfied with, give this list a name. Call it
“A.”
Back home you sit down and inventory your own skills, knowledge, and
experience, by doing the inventory of who you are described in chapter 8,
the Flower Exercise. Give this list a name, also. Call it “B.”
Having done this, subtract “B” from “A.” This gives you another new
list, which you should name “C.” “C” is by definition a list of the skills or
knowledge that you don’t have, but must find—either by taking courses
yourself, or by hiring someone with those skills, or by getting a friend or
family member (who has those skills) to volunteer to help you for a while.
For example, if your investigation revealed that it takes good accounting
practices in order to turn a profit, and you don’t know a thing about
accounting, you now know enough to go out and hire a part-time
accountant immediately—or, if you absolutely have no money, maybe you
can talk an accountant friend of yours into giving you some volunteer
time, for a while.
I can illustrate this whole process with a case history. Our job-hunter is
a woman who has been making harps for some employer, but now is
thinking about going into business for herself, not only making harps at
home, but also designing harps, with the aid of a computer. After
interviewing several home-based harp makers and harp designers, and
finishing her own self-assessment, her chart of A – B = C came out
looking like the example on this page.
If she decides she does indeed want to try her hand at becoming an
independent harp maker and harp designer, she now knows what she needs
but lacks: computer programming, knowledge of the principles of
electronics, and accounting. In other words, List C. These she must either
go to school to acquire for herself, OR enlist from some friends of hers in
those fields, on a volunteer basis, OR go out and hire, part-time. It should
be always possible—with a little blood, sweat, and imagination—to find
out what A – B = C is, for any business you’re dreaming of doing.
Click here to download a PDF of the A – B = C chart.
GET FEEDBACK
So, are you cut out for this sort of thing? Only you can answer that, in your
innermost thoughts. But you can get some help.
There is a self-examination type questionnaire that you can fill out, at
Working 
Solo 
(www.​workingsolo.​com/​faqstarting.​html#Ans1). 
It
encourages you to ask yourself the hard questions.
There is also a website called Checkster (www.​checkster.​com). Scroll
down to the bottom of its home page. There you will see “Solutions.
Talent Checkup.” Click on it. Set up your free account. Then follow the
instructions. You can give Checkster the names and emails of six to twelve
of your colleagues, friends, or family, who know you well. Checkster will
send them, in your name, a request that they answer a few brief questions
about you and your past work. Once these are answered, Checkster
removes the names, mashes all the responses together, and sends you a
summary report concerning your strengths and weaknesses—as perceived
by those around you. The report is mailed only to you. And it is free. It
should help you make a better decision about whether or not you’re cut out
for being your own boss.
Final feedback: It really shouldn’t be necessary for me to say this, but
I’ve learned over the years that it is: if you have a spouse or partner, tell
them what you’re up to, find out what their opinion is, explore
whether this is going to require sacrifices from them (not just you),
and how they feel about that. If your life is shared with them, and vice
versa, you have no right to make this decision unilaterally, all by yourself.
They should be part of the whole journey, not just at the end when your
mind is already made up. You have a responsibility to make them full
partners in any decision you’re facing. Love demands it!
If after all this feedback, you decide you still want to create your own
job by starting this kind of business, go ahead and try—no matter what
your well-meaning but cautious friends or family may say. They love you,
they’re concerned for you, and you should thank them for that; but come
on, you only have one life here on this Earth, and that life is yours (under
God) to say how it will be spent, or not spent. Parents, children, well-
meaning friends, etc., can give loving advice, but in the end they get no
vote. Under God, only you and your partner do.
Just remember, it takes a lot of guts to try ANYTHING new (to you) in
today’s slowly recovering economy. It’s easier, however, if you keep these
things in mind:
1. There is always some risk, in trying something new. Your goal, I
hope, is not to avoid risk—there is no way to do that—but to make
sure ahead of time that the risks are manageable.
2. As we have seen, you find this out before you start, by first talking to
others who have already done what you are thinking of doing; then
you evaluate whether or not you still want to go ahead and try it.
3. Have a plan B, laid out, before you start, as to what you will do if it
doesn’t work out; i.e., know where you are going to go, next. Don’t
wait, puh-leaze! Write it out, now: This is what I’m going to do, if
this doesn’t work out.
A Case History4
A man decided to set up his own business. He knew he would have
three problems: how to find help; how to find clients or customers;
and how to build up the business.
He knew he could operate on a shoestring, if he went global, so
using his computer, he searched for whatever kind of help he needed:
website design, printing, whatever. All he had to do was type in the
name of the skill-set he needed, plus the word “overseas,” and the
word “jobs”—and then choose from what he found.
He began by using this kind of help to set up his own website. On
his website, he decided that nobody was going to buy anything from
him unless they first trusted him. Trust began by not asking anything
of them. So, he divided his potential clients or customers into three
categories (in his mind): new, repeaters, and steady return visitors.
He decided to give content away for free to first-time visitors. He
reserved more valuable content for those who returned to his
website, but now not for free; he required something back from
them, namely, their name and email address. And he reserved the
stuff he had to sell, for the steady customers, after they had gotten to
know him, and trusted him.
Next, he built up an initial mailing list by going to his local library
and accessing the free lists at ReferenceUSA (www.​referenceusa.​
com). He put these names on his computer.
He set up an email autoresponder, using aWeber (www.​aweber.​
com). He knew all about the popular Constant Contact (www.​
constantcontact.​com) but went with aWeber in the end.
He got people to subscribe to his mailing list (subscription was
free, and he guaranteed they would receive one email tip every week
for a year). He put a link back to his website, at the end of each
email. Before he began, he created an outline (only) of what he
would cover, for the fifty-two weeks. He identified not just what
problems his potential clients were facing but from among those,
which of them was causing them some kind of pain—physical,
psychological, mental, or whatever. He wrote three articles before he
started, then wrote another one of the fifty-two articles, weekly, just
staying three weeks ahead of his first subscriber. He quickly learned
that people needed to see his emails seven times before they
remembered his ideas, and recognized him as an authority.
Having learned that people trust video most, audio next, photos
next, and basic text the least, he set up an audio podcast course on
iTunes. He found on the Internet, specifically YouTube, how to do
this.
He tried to employ social media in every way that he could think
of. He needed websites that had tons of traffic. So, he went to
Wikipedia to find a complete list of all the most popular social media
sites 
at 
http://en.​wikipedia.​org/​wiki/​
List_of_social_networking_websites. (One of the headings in the
chart there is “Registered Users.” Immediately to the right of those
words is a teeny-tiny little symbol. If you click on it you get all the
social media sites you can think of, listed in the order of their
number of users. Click on the little icon once more, if Google+ isn’t
the top entry.) He decided to join, and make his presence known, on
three or four of the most popular sites, by posting stuff there. In
every posting, he referred them—at the end—back to his website. He
kept up with facts and tips about these websites by subscribing to
Craig Smith’s marvelous daily Digital Marketing Ramblings, at
http://expandedramblings.​com.
He also put posts on popular online forums related to his field and
area of expertise. He tried to post on the most popular, trafficked
ones, which he found by Googling his favorite keyword(s) plus the
word “forum.” He found that the most popular forums usually rise to
the top of a search engine’s list; that’s where he wanted to enter his
posts. He tried to always ask interesting questions, or to offer a list of
resources.
Finally, he set up a channel on YouTube, and regularly posted
three-minute videos that he shot in his kitchen, using an inexpensive
video camera he picked up on sale.
He became quite successful.
1. And each year, 10% of all workers actually do start their own business.
2. Free Agent Nation (Business Plus, 2002), www.​danpink.​com/​books/​free-agent-
nation.
3. A lot of people like the idea of a home business, so vultures have taken advantage
of that. You will run into ads on TV and on the Web and in your email, offering
you a home business “buy-in.” They sound enticing. But, as AARP’s Bulletin back
on March 23, 2009, pointed out: of the more than three million Web entries that
surfaced from a Google search on the terms “work at home,” more than 95% of the
results were scams, links to scams, or other dead ends. Even the sites that claim to
be scam-free often feature ads that link to scams. The statistic is: a 48-to-1 scam
ratio among ads offering you a nice home business. That’s forty-eight scams for
every one true ad. This swamp is filled with alligators!
4. I am indebted to my friend Patrick Schwerdtfeger, author of Marketing Shortcuts
for the Self-Employed (Wiley, 2011), for this case history.
© ScienceCartoonsPlus.​com
APPENDIX A
Finding Your Mission in Life
There are those who think that belief in God is just some fairy
tale that humankind invented, to fortify themselves against the
darkness. Naturally, therefore, they think that anyone who says
they believe in God these days is demonstrably feebleminded, or
a pathetic child who has never grown up intellectually.
Given this view, they are horrified to find a section on faith or
religion in a job-hunting book. They have written to me, and said
so.
Well, here it is, anyway.
That’s because the percentage of the world’s population that
says they don’t believe there is a God averages less than 18% (it
varies from country to country: here in the U.S. the figure is
11%, while in Canada that figure is 19%–30%). Still, that leaves
us with an overwhelming percentage of the U.S. population
(89%) believing in God.1 And my more than ten million readers
are a pretty typical cross section of this country.
A comprehensive demographic study of more than 230
countries and territories conducted by the Pew Research Center’s
Forum on Religion & Public Life estimates that there are 6.1
billion religiously affiliated adults and children around the globe,
representing 84% of the 2015 world population of 7.3 billion.
That demographic study—based on analysis of more than
2,500 censuses, surveys, and population registers—found there
are 2.3 billion Christians (31% of the world’s population) in the
world, 1.8 billion Muslims (24%), 1.1 billion Hindus (15%),
nearly 500 million Buddhists (7%), and 14.6 million Jews
(0.2%) as of 2015. (The most recent year for which we have
figures.)
This book is used by 10,000,000 readers in 26 countries,
around the world. So, leaving out a section that 84% of my
readers worldwide might be interested in, and helped by, in order
to please just 16% of my readers, seems to me insane.
Indeed according to the Pew Research Center, over 75% of
the world’s population lives in areas with severe religious
restrictions. 
That’s 
restrictions 
against 
Muslims, 
Jews,
Christians, and other religions. According to the United States
Department of State, Christians in more than 60 countries face
persecution from their governments or surrounding neighbors
simply because of their belief in Jesus Christ.
“Christians…have now experienced the full impact of the
world’s hostility and indifference. We are staggered and alarmed
by the extent of it, and dumfounded by its partial success.
Numerically we are drastically reduced, proportionately to the
enormously increased population, and we shall probably
continue in that way; perhaps with even greater numerical
reductions….No doubt we survive as a minority but by no means
as a pitiful or contemptible minority. We die daily because of
our own weakness and unworthiness, yet we live, nevertheless
because God is with us….Modern man relies on nothing that
will not some day be taken away from him. Those who are
utterly committed to the Christian faith rely in the last resort on
nothing that could possibly be taken away. That is why the
Church, contrary to all appearances, is stronger than the world.
And that is why it is the duty of Christians to be sympathetic,
compassionate, and merciful in their dealings with their
estranged brethren.”2
I do not want to add to that feeling by keeping silent. Faith is
welcome in this book.
As I started writing this section, I toyed at first with the idea
of following what might be described as an “all-paths approach”
to religion: trying to stay as general and nonspecific as I could.
But, after much thought, I decided not to try that. This, because I
have read many other writers who tried, and I felt the approach
failed miserably. An “all-paths” approach to religion ends up
being a “no-paths” approach, just as a woman or man who tries
to please everyone ends up pleasing no one. It is the old story of
the “universal” vs. the “particular.”
Those of us who do career counseling could predict, ahead of
time, that trying to stay universal is not likely to be helpful, in
writing about faith. We know well from our own field that truly
helpful career counseling depends upon defining the particularity
or uniqueness of each person we try to help. No employer wants
to know what you have in common with everyone else. He or
she wants to know what makes you unique and individual. As I
have argued throughout this book, the inventory of your
uniqueness or particularity is crucial if you are ever to find
meaningful work.
This particularity invades everything a person does; it is not
suddenly “jettisonable” when he or she turns to matters of faith.
Therefore, when I or anyone else writes about faith I believe we
must write out of our own particularity—which starts, in my
case, with the fact that I write, and think, and breathe as a
Christian—as you might expect from the fact that I was an
ordained Episcopalian minister for many years. Understandably,
then, this chapter speaks from a Christian perspective. I want
you to be aware of that, at the outset. Balanced against this is the
fact that I have always been acutely sensitive to the fact that this
is a pluralistic society in which we live, and that I in particular
owe a great deal to my readers who have religious convictions
quite different from my own. It has turned out that the people
who work or have worked here in my office with me, over the
years, have been predominantly of other faiths.
Furthermore, Parachute’s more than ten million readers have
included not only Christians of every variety and persuasion,
Christian Scientists, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists, and adherents of
Islam, but also believers in “new age” religions, secularists,
humanists, agnostics, atheists, and many others. I have therefore
tried to be very courteous toward the feelings of all my readers,
while at the same time counting on them to translate my
Christian thought-forms into their own. This ability to thus
translate is the indispensable sine qua non of anyone who wants
to communicate helpfully with others in this pluralistic society
of ours.
In the Judeo-Christian tradition from which I come, one of the
indignant biblical questions was, “Has God forgotten to be
gracious?” The answer was a clear “No.” I think it is important
for all of us also to seek the same goal. I have therefore labored
to make this chapter gracious as well as thought-provoking.
ScienceCartoonsPlus.​com
Turning Point
For many of us, the job-hunt offers a chance to make some
fundamental changes in our whole life. It marks a turning point
in how we live our life.
It gives us a chance to ponder and reflect, to extend our
mental horizons, to go deeper into the subsoil of our soul.
It gives us a chance to wrestle with the question, “Why am I
here on Earth?” We don’t want to feel that we are just another
grain of sand lying on the beach called humanity, unnumbered
and lost in the billions of other human beings.
We want to do more than plod through life, going to work,
coming home from work. We want to find that special joy, “that
no one can take from us,” which comes from having a sense of
Mission in our life.
We want to feel we were put here on Earth for some special
purpose, to do some unique work that only we can accomplish.
We want to know what our Mission is.
The Meaning of the Word “Mission”
When used with respect to our life and work, Mission has always
been a religious concept, from beginning to end. It is defined by
Webster’s as “a continuing task or responsibility that one is
destined or fitted to do or specially called upon to undertake,”
and historically has had two major synonyms: Calling and
Vocation. These, of course, are the same word in two different
languages, English and Latin. Both imply God. To be given a
Vocation or Calling implies Someone who calls. To have a
Destiny implies Someone who determined the destination for us.
Thus, the concept of Mission lands us inevitably in the lap of
God, before we have hardly begun.
I emphasize this, because there is an increasing trend in our
culture to try to speak about religious subjects without reference
to God. This is true of “spirituality,” “soul,” and “Mission,” in
particular. More and more books talk about Mission as though it
were simply “a purpose you choose for your own life, by
identifying your enthusiasms.”
This attempt to obliterate all reference to God from the
originally religious concept of Mission, is particularly ironic
because the proposed substitute word—enthusiasms—is derived
from two Greek words, “en theos,” and means “God in us.”
In the midst of this increasingly secular culture, we find an
oasis that—along with athletics—is very hospitable toward
belief in God. That oasis is job-hunting. Most of the leaders who
have evolved creative job-hunting ideas were—from the
beginning—people who believed firmly in God, and said so:
Sidney Fine, Bernard Haldane, and John Crystal (all of whom
have departed this life), plus Arthur and Marie Kirn, Arthur
Miller, Tom and Ellie Jackson, Ralph Matson, and of course
myself.
I mentioned at the beginning of this appendix that 89% of us
in the U.S. believe in God. According to the Gallup
Organization, 90% of us pray, 88% of us believe God loves us,
and 33% of us report that we have had a life-changing religious
experience.
However, it is not clear that we have made much connection
between our belief in God and our work. Often our spiritual
beliefs and our attitude toward our work live in separate mental
ghettos, within our mind.
A dialogue between these two is opened up inside our head,
and heart, when we are out of work. Unemployment, particularly
in this brutal economy, gives us a chance to contemplate why we
are here on Earth, and what our Calling, Vocation, or Mission is,
uniquely, for each of us.
Unemployment becomes life transition, when we can’t find a
job doing the same work we’ve always done. Since we have to
rethink one thing, many of us elect to rethink everything.
Something awakens within us. Call it yearning. Call it hope.
We come to realize the dream we dreamed has never died. And
we go back to get it. We decide to resume our search…for the
life we know within our heart that we were meant to live.
Now we have a chance to marry our work and our religious
beliefs, to talk about Calling, and Vocation, and Mission in life
—to think out why we are here, and what plans God has for us.
That’s why a period of unemployment can absolutely change
our life.
The Secret to Finding Your Mission
in Life: Taking It in Stages
I will explain the steps toward finding your Mission in life that I
have learned in all my years on Earth. Just remember two things.
First, I speak from a lifelong Christian perspective, and trust you
to translate this into your own thought-forms.
Second, I know that these steps are not the only Way. Many
people have discovered their Mission by taking other paths. And
you may, too. But hopefully what I have to say may shed some
light upon whatever path you take.
I have learned that if you want to figure out what your
Mission in life is, it will likely take some time. It is not a
problem to be solved in a day and a night. It is a learning
process that has steps to it, much like the process by which we
all learned to eat. As a baby, we did not tackle adult food right
off. As we all recall, there were three stages: first there had to be
the mother’s milk or bottle, then strained baby foods, and finally
—after teeth and time—the stuff that grown-ups chew. Three
stages—and the two earlier stages were not to be disparaged. It
was all eating, just different forms of eating—appropriate to our
development at the time. But each stage had to be mastered, in
turn, before the next could be approached.
There are usually three stages also to learning what your
Mission in life is, and the two earlier stages are likewise not to
be disparaged. It is all “Mission”—just different forms of
Mission, appropriate to your development at the time. But each
stage has to be mastered, in turn, before the next can be
approached.
Of course, there is a sense in which you never master any of
these stages, but are always growing in understanding and
mastery of them, throughout your whole life here on Earth.
As it has been impressed on me by observing many people
over the years (admittedly through Christian spectacles), it
appears that the three parts to your Mission here on Earth can be
defined generally as follows:
1. Your first Mission here on Earth is one that you share with
the rest of the human race, but it is no less your individual
Mission for the fact that it is shared: and it is, to seek to
stand hour by hour in the conscious presence of God,
the One from whom your Mission is derived. The
Missioner before the Mission, is the rule. In religious
language, your Mission here is: to know God, and enjoy
Him forever, and to see His hand in all His works.
2. Second, once you have begun doing that in an earnest way,
your second Mission here on Earth is also one that you
share with the rest of the human race, but it is no less your
individual Mission for the fact that it is shared: and that is,
to do what you can, moment by moment, day by day,
step by step, to make this world a better place, following
the leading and guidance of God’s Spirit within you and
around you.
3. Third, once you have begun doing that in a serious way,
your third Mission here on Earth is one that is uniquely
yours, and that is:
a) to exercise the Talent that you particularly came to
Earth to use—your greatest gift, which you most
delight to use,
b) in the place(s) or setting(s) that God has caused to
appeal to you the most,
c) and for those purposes that God most needs to have
done in the world.
When fleshed out, and spelled out, I think you will find that
there you have the definition of your Mission in life. Or, to put it
another way, these are the three Missions that you have in life.
The Two Rhythms of the Dance of
Mission: Unlearning, Learning,
Unlearning, Learning
The distinctive characteristic of these three stages is that in each
we are forced to let go of some fundamental assumptions that
our culture has taught us, about the nature of Mission. In other
words, throughout this quest and at each stage we find ourselves
engaged not merely in a process of Learning. We are also
engaged in a process of Unlearning. Thus, we can restate the
three Learnings, in terms of what we also need to unlearn at each
stage:
We need in the first stage to unlearn the idea that our
Mission is primarily to keep busy doing something (here on
Earth), and learn instead that our Mission is first of all to
keep busy being something (here on Earth). In Christian
language (and others as well), we might say that we were
sent here to learn how to be sons of God, and daughters of
God, before anything else. “Our Father, who art in
heaven….”
In the second stage, “Being” issues into “Doing.” At this
stage, we need to unlearn the idea that everything about our
Mission must be unique to us, and learn instead that some
parts of our Mission here on Earth are shared by all human
beings: e.g., we were all sent here to bring more gratitude,
more kindness, more forgiveness, and more love, into the
world. We share this Mission because the task is too large
to be accomplished by just one individual.
We need in the third stage to unlearn the idea that the part
of our Mission that is truly unique, and most truly ours, is
something Our Creator just orders us to do, without any
agreement from our spirit, mind, and heart. (On the other
hand, neither is it something that each of us chooses and
then merely asks God to bless.) We need to learn that God
so honors our free will, that He has ordained that our unique
Mission be something that we have some part in choosing.
In this third stage we need also to unlearn the idea that
our unique Mission must consist of some achievement for
all the world to see—and learn instead that as the stone
does not always know what ripples it has caused in the
pond whose surface it impacts, so neither we nor those who
watch our life will always know what we have achieved by
our life and by our Mission. It may be that by the grace of
God we helped bring about a profound change for the better
in the lives of other souls around us, but it also may be that
this takes place beyond our sight, or after we have gone on.
And we may never know what we have accomplished, until
we see Him face-to-face after this life is past.
Most finally, we need to unlearn the idea that what we
have accomplished is our doing, and ours alone. It is God’s
Spirit breathing in us and through us that helps us do
whatever we do, and so the singular first-person pronoun is
never appropriate, but only the plural. Not “I accomplished
this” but “We accomplished this, God and I, working
together….”
That should give you a general overview. But I would like to
add some random comments on my part about each of these
three Missions of ours here on Earth.
Some Random Comments About
Your First Mission in Life
Your first Mission here on Earth is one that you share with the
rest of the human race, but it is no less your individual Mission
for the fact that it is shared: and that is, to seek to stand hour by
hour in the conscious presence of God, the One from whom
your Mission is derived. The Missioner before the Mission, is
the rule. In religious language, your Mission is: to know God,
and enjoy Him forever, and to see His hand in all His works.
Comment 1:
How We Might Think of God
Each of us has to go about this primary Mission according to the
tenets of our own particular religion. But I will speak what I
know out of the context of my own particular faith, and you may
perhaps translate and apply it to yours. I will speak as a
Christian, who believes (passionately) that Christ is the Way and
the Truth and the Life. But I also believe, with St. Peter, “that
God shows no partiality, but in every nation anyone who fears
Him and does what is right is acceptable to Him” (Acts 10:34–
35).
Now, Jesus claimed many unique things about Himself and
His Mission; but He also spoke of Himself as the great prototype
for us all. He called Himself “the Son of Man,” and He said, “I
assure you that the man who believes in me will do the same
things that I have done, yes, and he will do even greater things
than these…” (John 14:12).
Emboldened by His identification of us with His Life and His
Mission, we might want to remember how He spoke about His
Life here on Earth. He put it in this context: “I came from the
Father and have come into the world; again, I am leaving the
world and going to the Father” (John 16:28).
If there is a sense in which this is, in even the faintest way,
true also of our lives (and I shall say in a moment in what sense I
think it is true), then instead of calling our great Creator “God”
or “Father” right off, we might begin our approach to the subject
of religion by referring to the One Who gave us our Mission and
sent us to this planet not as “God” or “Father” but—just to help
our thinking—as: “The One From Whom We Came and The
One To Whom We Shall Return,” when this life is done.
If our life here on Earth is to be at all like Christ’s, then this is
a true way to think about the One Who gave us our Mission. We
are not some kind of eternal, preexistent being. We are creatures,
who once did not exist, and then came into Being, and continue
to have our Being, only at the will of our great Creator. But as
creatures we are both body and soul; although we know our
body was created in our mother’s womb, our soul’s origin is a
great mystery. Where it came from, at what moment the Lord
created it, is something we cannot know. It is not unreasonable
to suppose, however, that the great God created our soul before
it entered our body, and in that sense we did indeed stand before
God before we were born; and He is indeed “The One From
Whom We Came and The One To Whom We Shall Return.”
Therefore, before we go searching for “what work was I sent
here to do?” we need to establish—or in a truer sense reestablish
—contact with “The One From Whom We Came and The
One To Whom We Shall Return.” Without this reaching out of
the creature to the great Creator, without this reaching out of the
creature with a Mission to the One Who Gave Us That Mission,
the question what is my Mission in life? is void and null. The
what is rooted in the Who; absent the Personal, one cannot
meaningfully discuss The Thing. It is like the adult who cries, “I
want to get married,” without giving any consideration to who it
is they want to marry.
Comment 2: How We Might Think of Religion
or Faith
In light of this larger view of our creatureliness, we can see that
religion or faith is not a question of whether or not we choose to
(as it is so commonly put) “have a relationship with God.”
Looking at our life in a larger context than just our life here on
Earth, it becomes apparent that some sort of relationship with
God is a given for us, about which we have absolutely no choice.
God and we were and are related, during the time of our soul’s
existence before our birth and in the time of our soul’s continued
existence after our death. The only choice we have is what to do
about The Time in Between, i.e., what we want the nature of
our relationship with God to be during our time here on Earth
and how that will affect the nature of the relationship, then, after
death.
One of the corollaries of all this is that by the very act of being
born into a human body, it is inevitable that we undergo a kind
of amnesia—an amnesia that typically embraces not only our
nine months in the womb, our baby years, and almost one-third
of each day (sleeping), but more important any memory of our
origin or our destiny. We wander on Earth as an amnesia victim.
To seek after Faith, therefore, is to seek to climb back out of that
amnesia. Religion or Faith is the hard reclaiming of knowledge
we once knew as a certainty.
Comment 3: The First Obstacle to Executing
This Mission
This first Mission of ours here on Earth is not the easiest of
Missions, simply because it is the first. Indeed, in many ways, it
is the most difficult. All we can see is that our life here on Earth
is a very physical life. We eat, we drink, we sleep, we long to be
held, and to hold. We inherit a physical body, with very physical
appetites, we walk on the physical earth, and we acquire physical
possessions. It is the most alluring of temptations, in our
amnesia, to come up with just a Physical interpretation of this
life: to think that the Universe is merely interested in the survival
of species. Given this interpretation, the story of our individual
life could be simply told: we are born, grow up, procreate, and
die.
But we are ever recalled to do what we came here to do: that
without rejecting the joy of the Physicalness of this life, such as
the love of the blue sky and the green grass, we are to reach out
beyond all this to recall and recover a Spiritual interpretation of
our life. Beyond the physical and within the physicalness of this
life, to detect a Spirit and a Person from beyond this Earth who
is with us and in us—the very real and loving and awesome
Presence of the great Creator from whom we came—and the
One to whom we once again shall go.
Comment 4: The Second Obstacle to
Executing This Mission
It is one of the conditions of our earthly amnesia and our
creature-liness that, sadly enough, some very human and very
rebellious part of us likes the idea of living in a world where we
can be our own god—and therefore loves the purely Physical
interpretation of life, and finds it anguish to relinquish it.
Traditional Christian vocabulary calls this “sin” and has a lot to
say about the difficulty it poses for this first part of our Mission.
All who live a thoughtful life know that it is true: our greatest
enemy in carrying out this first Mission of ours is indeed our
own heart and our own rebellion.
Comment 5: Further Thoughts About What
Makes Us Special and Unique
As I said earlier, many of us come to this issue of our Mission in
life, because we want to feel that we are unique. And what we
mean by that, is that we hope to discover some “specialness”
intrinsic to us, which is our birthright, and which no one can take
from us. What we, however, discover from a thorough
exploration of this topic, is that we are indeed special—but only
because God thinks us so. Our specialness and uniqueness reside
in Him, and His love, rather than in anything intrinsic to our own
being. The proper appreciation of this distinction causes our feet
to carry us in the end not to the City called Pride, but to the
Temple called Gratitude.
What is religion? Religion is the service of God out of
grateful love for what God has done for us. The Christian
religion, more particularly, is the service of God out of
grateful love for what God has done for us in Christ.
—PHILLIPS BROOKS, author of O Little Town of
Bethlehem
Comment 6:
The Unconscious Doing of the Work We Came
to Do
You may have already wrestled with this first part of your
Mission here on Earth. You may not have called it that. You may
have called it simply “learning to believe in God.” But if you ask
what your Mission is in life, this one was and is the precondition
of all else that you came here to do. Absent this Mission, it is
folly to talk about the rest. So, if you have been seeking faith, or
seeking to strengthen your faith, you have—willy-nilly—already
been about the doing of the Mission you were given. Born into
This Time in Between, you have found His hand again, and
reclasped it. You are therefore ready to go on with His Spirit to
tackle together what you came here to do—the other parts of
your Mission.
Some Random Comments About
Your Second Mission in Life
Your second Mission here on Earth is also one that you share
with the rest of the human race, but it is no less your individual
Mission for the fact that it is shared: and that is, to do what you
can moment by moment, day by day, step by step, to make
this world a better place—following the leading and
guidance of God’s Spirit within you and around you.
Comment 1:
The Uncomfortableness of One Step at a Time
Imagine yourself out walking in your neighborhood one night,
and suddenly you find yourself surrounded by such a dense fog,
that you have lost your bearings and cannot find your way.
Suddenly, a friend appears out of the fog, and asks you to put
your hand in theirs, and they will lead you home. And you, not
being able to tell where you are going, trustingly follow them,
even though you can only see one step at a time. Eventually you
arrive safely home, filled with gratitude. But as you reflect upon
the experience the next day, you realize how unsettling it was to
have to keep walking when you could see only one step at a
time, even though you had guidance you knew you could trust.
Now I have asked you to imagine all of this, because this is
the essence of the second Mission to which you are called—and
I am called—in this life. It is all very different than we had
imagined. When the question, “What is your Mission in life?” is
first broached, and we have put our hand in God’s, as it were, we
imagine that we will be taken up to some mountaintop, from
which we can see far into the distance. And that we will hear a
voice in our ear, saying, “Look, look, see that distant city? That
is the goal of your Mission; that is where everything is leading,
every step of your way.”
But instead of the mountaintop, we find ourselves in the valley
—wandering often in a fog. And the voice in our ear says
something quite different from what we thought we would hear.
It says, “Your Mission is to take one step at a time, even when
you don’t yet see where it all is leading, or what the Grand Plan
is, or what your overall Mission in life is. Trust Me; I will lead
you.”
Comment 2:
The Nature of This Step-by-Step Mission
As I said, in every situation you find yourself, you have been
sent here to do whatever you can—moment by moment—that
will bring more gratitude, more kindness, more forgiveness,
more honesty, and more love into this world.
There are dozens of such moments every day. Moments when
you stand—as it were—at a spiritual crossroads, with two ways
lying before you. Such moments are typically called “moments
of decision.” It does not matter what the frame or content of
each particular decision is. It all devolves, in the end, into just
two roads before you, every time. The one will lead to less
gratitude, less kindness, less forgiveness, less honesty, or less
love in the world. The other will lead to more gratitude, more
kindness, more forgiveness, more honesty, or more love in the
world. Your Mission, each moment, is to seek to choose the
latter spiritual road, rather than the former, every time.
Comment 3:
Some Examples of This Step-by-Step Mission
I will give a few examples, so that the nature of this part of your
Mission may be unmistakably clear.
You are out on the freeway, in your car. Someone has gotten
into the wrong lane, to the right of your lane, and needs to move
over into the lane you are in. You see their need to cut in, ahead
of you. Decision time. In your mind’s eye you see two spiritual
roads lying before you: the one leading to less kindness in the
world (you speed up, to shut this driver out, and don’t let them
move over), the other leading to more kindness in the world (you
let the driver cut in). Since you know this is part of your
Mission, part of the reason why you came to Earth, your
calling is clear. You know which road to take, which decision
to make.
You are hard at work at your desk, when suddenly an
interruption comes. The phone rings, or someone is at the door.
They need something from you, a question of some of your time
and attention. Decision time. In your mind’s eye you see two
spiritual roads lying before you: the one leading to less love in
the world (you tell them you’re just too busy to be bothered), the
other leading to more love in the world (you put aside your
work, decide that God may have sent this person to you, and say,
“Yes, what can I do to help you?”). Since you know this is part
of your Mission, part of the reason why you came to Earth,
your calling is clear. You know which road to take, which
decision to make.
Your mate does something that hurts your feelings. Decision
time. In your mind’s eye you see two spiritual roads lying before
you: the one leading to less forgiveness in the world (you
institute an icy silence between the two of you, and think of how
you can punish them or otherwise get even), the other leading to
more forgiveness in the world (you go over and take them in
your arms, speak the truth about your hurt feelings, and assure
them of your love). Since you know this is part of your
Mission, part of the reason why you came to Earth, your
calling is clear. You know which road to take, which decision
to make.
You have not behaved at your most noble, recently. And now
you are face-to-face with someone who asks you a question
about what happened. Decision time. In your mind’s eye you see
two spiritual roads lying before you: the one leading to less
honesty in the world (you lie about what happened, or what you
were feeling, because you fear losing their respect or their love),
the other leading to more honesty in the world (you tell the truth,
together with how you feel about it, in retrospect). Since you
know this is part of your Mission, part of the reason why you
came to Earth, your calling is clear. You know which road to
take, which decision to make.
Comment 4:
The Spectacle That Makes the Angels Laugh
It is necessary to explain this part of our Mission in some detail,
because so many times you will see people wringing their hands,
and saying, “I want to know what my Mission in life is,” all the
while they are cutting people off on the highway, refusing to
give time to people, punishing their mate for having hurt their
feelings, and lying about what they did. And it will seem to you
that the angels must laugh to see this spectacle. For these people
wringing their hands, their Mission was right there, on the
freeway, in the interruption, in the hurt, and at the confrontation.
Comment 5:
The Valley Versus the Mountaintop
At some point in your life your Mission may involve some grand
mountaintop experience, where you say to yourself, “This, this,
is why I came into the world. I know it. I know it.” But until
then, your Mission is here in the valley, and the fog, and the little
callings moment by moment, day by day. More to the point, it is
likely you cannot ever get to your mountaintop Mission unless
you have first exercised your stewardship faithfully in the valley.
It is an ancient principle, to which Jesus alluded often, that if
you don’t use the information the Universe has already given
you, you cannot expect it will give you any more. If you aren’t
being faithful in small things, how can you expect to be given
charge over larger things? (Luke 16:10–12, 19:11–24). If you
aren’t trying to bring more gratitude, kindness, forgiveness,
honesty, and love into the world each day, you can hardly expect
that you will be entrusted with the Mission to help bring peace
into the world or anything else large and important. If we do not
live out our day-by-day Mission in the valley, we cannot expect
we are yet ready for a larger mountaintop Mission.
Comment 6:
The Importance of Not Thinking of This
Mission as “Just a Training Camp”
The valley is not just a kind of “training camp.” There is in your
imagination even now an invisible spiritual mountaintop to
which you may go, if you wish to see where all this is leading.
And what will you see there, in the imagination of your heart,
but the goal toward which all this is pointed: that Earth might
be more like heaven. That human life might be more like
God’s. That is the large achievement toward which all our day-
by-day Missions in the valley are moving. This is a large order,
but it is accomplished by faithful attention to the doing of our
great Creator’s will in little things as well as in large. It is much
like the building of the pyramids in Egypt, which was
accomplished by the dragging of a lot of individual pieces of
stone by a lot of individual men.
The valley, the fog, the going step by step, is no mere training
camp. The goal is real, however large. “Thy Kingdom come,
Thy will be done, on Earth, as it is in heaven.”
Some Random Comments About
Your Third Mission in Life
Your third Mission here on Earth is one that is uniquely yours,
and that is:
a) to exercise the Talent that you particularly came to
Earth to use—your greatest gift that you most delight
to use,
b) in those place(s) or setting(s) that God has caused to
appeal to you the most,
c) and for those purposes that God most needs to have
done in the world.
Comment 1:
Our Mission Is Already Written,
“in Our Members”
It is customary in trying to identify this part of our Mission, to
advise that we should ask God, in prayer, to speak to us—and
tell us plainly what our Mission is. We look for a voice in the air,
a thought in our head, a dream in the night, a sign in the events
of the day, to reveal this thing that is otherwise (it is said)
completely hidden. Sometimes, from just such answered prayer,
people do indeed discover what their Mission is, beyond all
doubt and uncertainty.
But having to wait for the voice of God to reveal what our
Mission is, is not the truest picture of our situation. St. Paul, in
Romans, speaks of a law “written in our members”—and this
phrase has a telling application to the question of how God
reveals to each of us our unique Mission in life. Read again the
definition of our third Mission (above) and you will see: the
clear implication of the definition is that God has already
revealed His will to us concerning our vocation and Mission, by
causing it to be “written in our members.” We are to begin
deciphering our unique Mission by studying our Talents and
skills, and more particularly which ones (or one) we most rejoice
to use.
God actually has written His will twice in our members: first
in the Talents that He lodged there, and second in His guidance
of our heart, as to which Talent gives us the greatest pleasure
from its exercise (it is usually the one that, when we use it,
causes us to lose all sense of time).
Even as the anthropologist can examine ancient inscriptions,
and divine from them the daily life of a long-lost people, so we
by examining our Talents and our heart can more often than
we dream divine the Will of the Living God. For true it is, our
Mission is not something He will reveal; it is something He has
already revealed. It is not to be found written in the sky; it is to
be found written in our members.
Comment 2:
Career Counseling—We Need You
Arguably, our first two Missions in life could be learned from
religion alone—without any reference whatsoever to career
counseling, the subject of this book. Why, then, should career
counseling claim that this question about our Mission in life is
its proper concern, in any way?
It is when we come to this third Mission, which hinges so
crucially on the question of our Talents, skills, and gifts, that we
see the answer. If you’ve read the body of this book, before
turning to this section, then you know without my even saying it,
how much the identification of Talents, gifts, or skills is the
province of career counseling. Its expertise, indeed its raison
d’être, lies precisely in the identification, classification, and
(forgive me) “prioritization” of Talents, skills, and gifts. To put
the matter quite simply, career counseling knows how to do this
better than any other discipline—including traditional religion.
This is not a defect of religion, but the fulfillment of something
Jesus promised: “When the Spirit of truth comes, He will guide
you into all truth” (John 16:13). Career counseling is part (we
may hope) of that promised late-coming truth. It can therefore be
of inestimable help to the pilgrim who is trying to figure out
what their greatest, and most enjoyable, Talent is, as a step
toward identifying their unique Mission in life.
If career counseling needs religion as its helpmate in the first
two stages of identifying our Mission in life, then religion repays
the compliment by clearly needing career counseling as its
helpmate here in the third stage.
And this place where you are in your life right now—facing
the job-hunt and all its anxiety—is the perfect time to seek the
union within your own mind and heart of both career counseling
(as in the pages of this book) and your faith in God.
Comment 3:
How Our Mission Got Chosen—A Scenario
for the Romantic
It is a mystery that we cannot fathom, in this life at least, as to
why one of us has this Talent, and the other one has that; why
God chose to give one gift—and Mission—to one person, and a
different gift—and Mission—to another. Since we do not know,
and in some degree cannot know, we are certainly left free to
speculate, and imagine.
We may imagine that before we came to Earth, our souls, our
Breath, our Light, stood before the great Creator and volunteered
for this Mission. And God and we, together, chose what that
Mission would be and what particular gifts would be needed,
which He then agreed to give us, after our birth. Thus, our
Mission was not a command given preemptorily by an unloving
Creator to a reluctant slave without a vote, but was a task jointly
designed by us both, in which as fast as the great Creator said, “I
wish” our hearts responded, “Oh, yes.” As mentioned in an
earlier comment, it may be helpful to think of the condition of
our becoming human as that we became amnesiac about any
consciousness our soul had before birth—and therefore amnesiac
about the nature or manner in which our Mission was designed.
Our searching for our Mission now is therefore a searching to
recover the memory of something we ourselves had a part in
designing.
I am admittedly a hopeless romantic, so of course I like this
picture. If you also are a hopeless romantic, you may like it, too.
There’s also the chance that it just may be true. We will not
know until we see Him face-to-face.
Comment 4:
Mission as Intersection
There are all different kinds of voices calling you to all
different kinds of work, and the problem is to find out
which is the voice of God rather than that of society, say,
or the superego, or self-interest. By and large a good rule
for finding out is this: the kind of work God usually calls
you to is the kind of work a) that you need most to do and
b) the world most needs to have done. If you really get a
kick out of your work, you’ve presumably met requirement
a), but if your work is writing TV deodorant commercials,
the chances are you’ve missed requirement b). On the
other hand, if your work is being a doctor in a leper
colony, you have probably met b), but if most of the time
you’re bored and depressed by it, the chances are you
haven’t only bypassed a) but probably aren’t helping your
patients much either. Neither the hair shirt nor the soft
birth will do. The place God calls you to is the place where
your deep gladness and the world’s deep hunger meet.
—FRED BUECHNER, Wishful Thinking—A
Theological ABC
Excerpted from Wishful Thinking—A Theological ABC by Frederick
Buechner, revised edition published by HarperOne. Copyright ©
1973, 1993 by Frederick Buechner.
Comment 5:
Examples of Mission as Intersection
Your unique and individual Mission will most likely turn out to
be a mission of Love, acted out in one or all of three arenas:
either in the Kingdom of the Mind, whose goal is to bring more
Truth into the world; or in the Kingdom of the Heart, whose goal
is to bring more Beauty into the world; or in the Kingdom of the
Will, whose goal is to bring more Perfection into the world,
through Service.
Here are some examples:
“My mission is, out of the rich reservoir of love that God
seems to have given me, to nurture and show love to others—
most particularly to those who are suffering from incurable
diseases.”
“My mission is to draw maps for people to show them how
to get to God.”
“My mission is to create the purest foods I can, to help
people’s bodies not get in the way of their spiritual growth.”
“My mission is to make the finest harps I can so that
people can hear the voice of God in the wind.”
“My mission is to make people laugh, so that the travail of
this earthly life doesn’t seem quite so hard to them.”
“My mission is to help people know the truth, in love,
about what is happening out in the world, so that there will
be more honesty in the world.”
“My mission is to weep with those who weep, so that in my
arms they may feel themselves in the arms of that Eternal
Love that sent me and that created them.”
“My mission is to create beautiful gardens, so that in the
lilies of the field people may behold the Beauty of God and
be reminded of the Beauty of Holiness.”
Comment 6:
Life as Long as Your Mission Requires
Knowing that you came to Earth for a reason, and knowing what
that Mission is, throws an entirely different light upon your life
from now on. You are, generally speaking, delivered from any
further fear about how long you have to live. You may settle it in
your heart that you are here until God chooses to think that you
have accomplished your Mission, or until God has a greater
Mission for you in another Realm. You need to be a good
steward of what He has given you, while you are here; but you
do not need to be an anxious steward or stewardess.
You need to attend to your health, but you do not need to
constantly worry about it. You need to meditate on your death,
but you do not need to be constantly preoccupied with it. To
paraphrase the glorious words of G. K. Chesterton: “We now
have a strong desire for living combined with a strange
carelessness about dying. We desire life like water and yet
are ready to drink death like wine.” We know that we are here
to do what we came to do, and we need not worry about
anything else.
Comment 7:
Using Internet Resources
There is a website that deals with news, etc., about all faiths,
which you may want to look at: www.​beliefnet.​com.
Then there is a Jesuit site that leads you in a daily meditation
for ten or more minutes (in more than twenty languages with a
visual, 
but 
otherwise 
no 
sound 
or 
distraction):
http://sacredspace.​ie.
There is also a site that gives you a daily podcast of church
bells, music, Scripture reading, and meditations or homily, with
no visuals, but with sound, and an audio MP3 file that can be
sent to your phone, computer, PDA, etc.: www.​pray-as-you-go.​
org.
There is a site dedicated to helping you keep a divine
consciousness 24/7, by helping you link up to other people of
faith, through prayer circles, sharing of personal stories of faith,
etc., aimed especially, but not exclusively, toward young adults.
Its ultimate message: you are not alone: www.​24-7prayer.​com/​
communities.
Lastly, there is a site dedicated to helping you find a spiritual
counselor (or “spiritual director”), as well as retreat centers, in
the Christian, Islamic, Buddhist, Jewish, or Interfaith faiths:
www.​sdiworld.​org.
Final Comment:
A Job-Hunt Done Well
If you approach your job-hunt as an opportunity to work on this
issue as well as the issue of how you will keep body and soul
together, then hopefully your job-hunt will end with your being
able to say: “Life has deep meaning to me, now. I have
discovered more than my ideal job; I have found my Mission,
and the reason why I am here on Earth.”
1. See the Gallup poll, published 6/29/16, at www.​gallup.​com/​poll/​
193271/​americans-believe-god.​aspx.
2. The Church To-day and To-morrow: The Prospect for Post-
Christianity by Julian Victor Langmead Casserley (1909–1978).
(London: SPCK, 1965), pp. 102, 113f.
APPENDIX B
A Guide to Dealing with
Your Feelings While Out of
Work
Unemployment can take a terrible toll upon the human spirit. In
a recent study of over 6,000 job-hunters, interviewed every week
for up to twenty-four weeks, it was found that
many workers become discouraged the longer they
are unemployed. In particular, the unemployed
express feeling more sad the longer they are
unemployed, and sadness rises more quickly with
unemployment duration during episodes of job search.
In addition, reported life satisfaction is lower for the
same individual following days in which
comparatively more time was devoted to job
search….These findings suggest that the
psychological cost of job search rises the longer
someone is unemployed….One reason why job search
assistance may have been found to consistently speed
individuals’ return to work in past studies is that it
may help the unemployed to overcome feelings of
anxiety and sadness that are associated with job
search.1
I know the truth of this from my own experience. I have been
fired twice in my life. I remember how it felt each time I got the
lousy news. I walked out of the building dazed, as though I had
just emerged from a really bad train wreck. The sun was shining
brightly, not a cloud in the sky; and, since it was lunch hour, as it
happened, the streets were filled with laughing happy people,
who apparently had not a care in the world.
I remember thinking, “The world has just caved—my world at
least. How can all these people act as though nothing has
happened?”
And I remember the feelings. The overwhelming feelings, that
only intensified in the weeks after that. Describe my state
however you want—feeling sad, being in a funk, feeling despair,
feeling hopeless, feeling like things “will always be this way,” or
feeling depressed—it doesn’t matter. I was terribly unhappy.
Unemployment was rocking my soul to its foundations. I needed
to know what to do about my feelings.
I have since learned that my experience was not the least
unusual. Many of us, if not most of us, when we are out of work
for a long time feel weary and depressed.2 Our greatest desire is
to get rid of these depressed feelings. After talking to thousands
of job-hunters, I think there are:
Ten Things We Can Do to Deal with
Our Feelings, When We Are
Unemployed
1. We can catch up on our sleep, even if it means we have to
take naps during the day because our attempt to sleep at
nighttime is, at the moment, a disaster. We tend to feel
depressed if we are short on our sleep, or our body is
otherwise run-down.
There are two states that can be easily confused:
First of all, the world never looks bright or happy to us
when we are very short on sleep.
Secondly, the world never looks bright or happy to us
when we are feeling depressed.
It is therefore easy to confuse the two feeling-states. Over
the years, I have seen many job-hunters who first thought
they were really depressed over their situation, later
discover they were really depressed just because they were
so tired. Or a bit of both. Anyway, sleep or nap, we often
turn into happier, more upbeat people, just by catching up
on our sleep. This can make us feel better—sometimes
much better.
2. There are other things that we can do to keep ourselves
more physically fit while unemployed. Job-hunters have
told me they found it important to:
get regular exercise, involving a daily walk;
drink plenty of water each day (this seems silly, but I
found out we tend to skip the water, and get dehydrated,
when we’re out of work);
eliminate sugar as much as possible from the diet;
take supplementary vitamins daily (no matter how many
doctors and nutritionists try to tell us that we already get
enough from our daily food);
eat balanced meals (not just pig out on junk food in front
of the telly);
and all that other stuff that our mothers always told us to
do.
3. We can do something about the physical space around
us. Our surroundings often mirror how we feel about
ourselves. If our physical environment looks like a disaster
area, that in itself can make us depressed. When we are
unemployed, we can vow we will live simpler—something
that maybe we’ve wanted to do, for a long time. We can
begin by taking care that each time we handle a thing, we
take it all the way to its new destination; we don’t just drop
it on the counter, thinking that we will deal with it later. We
can take care that when we take our clothes off at night, we
don’t just drop them on the floor, but hang them up or put
them in a laundry-hamper. And that, when we finish eating,
we put the dishes where they are going to be washed, and
put our food back in the refrigerator. And we can determine
that when we do such things as get a screwdriver out, to fix
a screw that’s dropped out of something, that we take the
screwdriver all the way back to the toolbox or wherever its
final destination is. And so on.
When we determine to always put our things away in a
timely fashion, neatness will start to appear in our physical
environment; this can help lift our spirits immensely, as our
physical space mirrors an upbeat life.
4. We can get outdoors daily and take a good walk. Hiding
in our cave (figuratively speaking) will only make us feel
more down. Seeing green trees (in season), sunlight,
mountains, flowers, people, will do our heart good, each
day.
5. We can focus on other people and their problems—not
just our own. If our unemployment is dragging on and on,
and we’re starting to have a lot of time on our hands, we
can find someplace in town that is dealing with people
worse off than we are, and go volunteer there. I’m talking
food banks, hospitals, housing aid, anything dealing with
kids—especially deprived kids, or kids with tremendous
handicaps—that sort of thing. We can do a search on
Google, put in the name of our town or city plus the name
of the problem we want to help with, and see what turns up.
If we determine to help someone else in need, while we’re
unemployed, we won’t feel so discarded by society.
And speaking of other people, we can renew our
acquaintance with old friends. We can explore the
friendships we already have, not because they are useful in
our job-hunt, but just because they are valuable human
beings. A wise man named Phillips Brooks used to say
there are two kinds of exploration: one involves going out
to explore new country; the other involves digging down
more deeply into the country we already occupy. Do both,
when you’re feeling down.
6. We can go on fun mini-adventures. Often there are
portions of our surroundings that we have never explored,
but a tourist would “hit” on, the very first day they were
there. I lived in New York City for a long time; never once
went up in the Empire State Building. I lived in San
Francisco for years; never once went out to the Zoo. You
get the point. If I lived in either of these cities today, and
was unemployed for any length of time, I would set out to
visit places I’d never seen. We can stop obsessing about
how much we lost from our past, and turn our face toward
the future. There are new worlds to conquer, after all.
7. We can deal with our feelings by expanding our mental
horizons, and learning something new. We can go read
up on subjects that have always interested us, but we’ve
never had enough time to explore. While we’re
unemployed, we have the time. If we can’t think of any
subject, there’s always the human mind. The mind, after all,
is what is trying hard to figure out what we should do next.
The more we understand it, the better we can heal. If you’re
looking for suggestions, I’d read anything by Martin
Seligman. There’s Learned Optimism: How to Change Your
Mind and Your Life, which, as one reviewer commented,
“vaulted me out of my funk.” It has excellent chapters on
dealing with depression. Or there’s Seligman’s most recent
book, Flourish: A Visionary New Understanding of
Happiness and Well-Being. If you want to delve into
improving 
your 
memory, 
there’s 
Joshua 
Foer’s
Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art and Science of
Remembering Everything. And, last but not least, if you
want to learn more about how one mind influences another
mind, there is Robert B. Cialdini’s Influence: The
Psychology of Persuasion. All these authors have extensive
videos on YouTube.
Speaking of videos, there are a million free videos
online, where you can learn just about anything. In addition
to videos, there are videocasts, webcasts, podcasts, and
every other kind of -cast. You can type the word “webcast,”
plus the subject in which you are interested, into your
favorite browser like Google, and then pick through
whatever turns up. There are also, of course, books. For our
Kindle Fire or Nook or iPad, or from online bookstores,
there are tons of eBooks available, running around ten
bucks, or a little more.
Another subject to explore is the world around us. I love
The Unofficial U.S. Census: Things the Official U.S. Census
Doesn’t Tell You About America, by Les Krantz and Chris
Smith. My favorite factoid there, because it’s related to
what I was talking about in our first suggestion: “More than
one-third of Americans take naps.” Yes!
8. We can talk, talk, talk with our loved ones, or a close
friend, about all the feelings we have. It’s amazing how
giving voice to thoughts and feelings, particularly when we
don’t much care for those thoughts and those feelings,
causes them to lose their power over us. So we should do it,
because otherwise stuff bottled up inside us tends to fester
and grow. We don’t want that. We must just take care that
we don’t pick the town gossip to confide in, nor a friend or
loved one who just can’t keep their mouth shut. You know
who they are.
9. We can pound a punching bag or even some pillows, to
get some of the angry energy out of us. I don’t know why,
but it’s astonishing how many of the unemployed have told
me this actually helps them get rid of some of their anger.
And this helps lift our depression as well. Sometimes
feeling down, and feeling angry seem almost to be two
different sides of the same coin. If we don’t have a gym in
our life we can build one at home, simply by putting a pile
of pillows on top of our bed, and then pounding the pillows
repeatedly, as hard as we can—without breaking anything
in our hands, wrists, or arms. This often really helps. We
are strange creatures.
10. We can make a list each day of the things that make us
grateful, glad, or even happy, day by day. There is a
habit of mind that is deadly while we’re out of work, and
that is spending too much of our day, every day, brooding
about what is wrong in our lives: what is wrong with
people, what is wrong with our situation, what is wrong
with anything and everything. By listing the things we are
thankful for, we teach ourselves to focus on what precious
gifts we still have, whether they be intelligence, health, or
love.
If we want to get over being depressed, it is crucial that
we give up endless complaint, it is crucial that we come to
forgiveness for any past wrongs done to us, it is crucial that
we, as Baltasar Gracián put it, “Get used to the failings of
our friends, family, and acquaintances….” We are all
human. We are all capable of turning our face toward the
future, rather than toward the past.
Postscript
Millions of people in this country have no religious beliefs. But
untold millions do. And it is not uncommon that for them,
unemployment turns out to be a major spiritual crisis in their life.
They cry out, “How could God have let this happen to me—if
He truly loved me?” Their faith, far from helping them out of
depression, often plunges them into it. They write me and ask for
some help and advice. Here is what I tell them.
We can revisit our picture of God and how He works in
this world. In the Christian church, for example, the Creed does
not begin with “I believe there is a God….” It begins with “I
believe in God….” I think we all understand this distinction,
between believing something about a friend of ours, say, that she
is tall, or smart, versus believing in that friend. To believe in
someone is to trust them, and to trust that they feel toward us as
they say they feel.
We can, instead of abandoning our faith, put some energy
into rethinking our faith on a higher level. Some 89% of us in
the U.S. say we believe in God, but the question is, What kind of
God do we believe in? Half a century ago, a man wrote a book
titled, Your God Is Too Small. Unemployment or any crisis often
reveals how poor and small our concept of God is. It is small
because it holds God responsible for everything that happens in
the world.
Each of us has to figure this out for ourselves. But since
people have asked me what I think, after ninety years on this
Earth, my thoughts ramble along in this fashion: In the Christian
faith, Jesus said the most important thing in the world, to God,
was that we love Him. Robots can’t love. He has to give us
freedom so we can choose to love, or not. With that freedom,
however, comes the possibility that we will make wrong choices,
and thus introduce tragedy into the world. Look at the mess the
world is in right now. Look at Congress. God didn’t do that!
Well, then, what does God do? To what larger conception of
God might we press? Let’s try this: imagine that you have, in
your dining room, a fine wooden chair, which one day has its
back broken off completely—I mean, into smithereens—by a
guest in your home. You run down the street, to summon a
carpenter who lives nearby. He comes and examines the chair.
He pronounces the back unrepairable. “But,” he says, “I think I
could make a fine wooden stool out of the remainder of the
chair, for you.” And so he spends much time, shaping, polishing,
and sanding it, and fashioning out of the former chair a fine
stool, more resplendent than anything you have ever dreamed.
He inlays it with precious metals, and soon it is the treasure of
your house.
This is, of course, a parable. And I know you understand it.
But let me underline a couple of key points in it. First of all, the
carpenter did not break the chair. Your houseguest did that. But
the carpenter came quickly, and with all his art and powers he
tried, first of all, to see if he could repair it. Finding it was too
late for that, he determined to make of it something even finer
than it had been before. And, he labored mightily, to that end. A
beautiful stool was the result.
A faith that thinks God is responsible for our unemployment,
and He could have and should have prevented it, needs to grow
up. It is too small a faith. It has too small a God.
While we are out of work, we can reach toward a larger
conception of our God and of ourselves. For, “to believe in God”
has the power to lift us out of depression, unless our God is too
small.
We can, realize that religion isn’t necessarily a blessing.
Much depends on whether it is healthy religion, or unhealthy
religion. Your choice. Here is the distinction between them:
Feelings are often a messenger bringing gifts, if only we open
our eyes to see them. If our feelings while we are out of work
push us to get more sleep, drink more water, get more physically
fit, get outdoors more, look harder at other people who are worse
off than we are, renew old neglected friendships, embark on
mini-adventures, expand the horizons of our mind, and rethink
our faith, then that is a gift indeed. A great gift.
1. Alan B. Krueger and Andreas Mueller, “Job Search, Emotional Well-
Being and Job Finding in a Period of Mass Unemployment: Evidence
from High-Frequency Longitudinal Data,” Brookings Papers on
Economic Activity, March 8, 2011.
2. Serious clinical depression often has a lifelong history, and requires
treatment, particularly when a person is feeling endangering impulses,
such as suicide. In such a case, you should seek competent
psychological or psychiatric help. (For immediate help, this minute,
call 1-800-273-8255 or go online to www.​suicidepreventionlifeline.​org.
There are counselors 24/7 at both places who deal with anyone,
including the military or veterans, in trouble.)
APPENDIX C
A Guide to Choosing a
Career Coach or Counselor
All readers of this book divide into two families, or groups. The
first group are those who find the book is all they need,
particularly if they do the exercises in chapter 8 successfully, on
their own.
The second group are those who find they need a little bit of
extra help. Either they bog down in their effort to complete the
whole book, or they start the exercises in chapter 8 and then get
stuck, at some point. So they want some additional help.
If You Decide You Need One
Fortunately, there are a lot of people out there, anxious to help
you with your job-hunt or career-change, in case this book isn’t
sufficient by itself. They go by various names: career coach,
career counselor, career development specialist, you name it.
They’re willing to help you for a fee—because this is how they
make their living. That fee will usually equal the fee charged by
other types of counselors in town, say, a good psychologist. That
will range from about $40 an hour in rural areas, on up to…you
don’t want to know. The fee may be charged by the hour
(recommended) or as one large lump sum up front (definitely not
recommended). And most towns or cities of any size have free or
almost-free help, too, even though it’s likely to be in a group and
not face-to-face with an individual counselor.
Now, about those coaches or counselors who charge to help
you. There are some simply excellent ones, out there. In fact, I
wish I could say that everyone who hangs out a sign in this
business could be completely recommended. But—alas! and
alack!—they can’t all be. This career-coaching or career-
counseling field is largely unregulated. And even where there is
some kind of certification, resulting in their being able to put a
lot of degree-soundin’ initials after their name, that doesn’t
really tell you much. It means a lot to them of course; in many
cases, they purchased those initials with their blood, sweat, and
tears. (Although a few, sad to say, got the initials after their
name by mail-order or after one long weekend of training. Tsk,
tsk. But, oh well, no different I suppose from a lot of other
professions. Some people are always looking for shortcuts.)
I used to try to explain what all those initials meant. There is a
veritable alphabet-soup of them, with new ones born every year.
But no more; I’ve learned, from more than forty years of
experience in this field, that 99.4% of all job-hunters and career-
changers don’t care a fig about these initials. All they want to
know is: do you know how to help me find a job? Or, more
specifically, do you know how to help me find my dream job—
one that matches the gifts, skills, and experience that I have, one
that makes me excited to get up in the morning, and excited to go
to bed at night, knowing I helped make this Earth a little better
place to be in? If so, I’ll hire you. If not, I’ll fire you.
How to Lose Your Shirt (or Skirt)
So, bye-bye initials! Let us start, instead, with this basic truth:
All coaches and counselors divide basically into three groups:
a) those who are honest, compassionate, and caring, and know
what they’re doing;
b) those who are honest but don’t know what they’re doing; and
c) those who are dishonest, and merely want your money—
large amounts, in a lump sum, and up front. These are often
so-called executive counseling firms—some executive
counseling firms—rather than individual counselors.
In other words, you’ve got compassionate, caring people in
the same field with bums and crooks. Your job, if you want help
and don’t want to waste your money, is to learn how to
distinguish the one from the other.
It would help, of course, if someone could just give you a list
of those who are firmly in the first category—honest and know
what they’re doing. But unfortunately, no one (including me) has
such a list, or ever has had. You’ve got to do your own
homework or research here, and your own interviewing, in your
chosen geographical area. And if you’re too lazy to take the time
and trouble to do this research, you will deserve what you get.
Why is it that you and only you can do this particular
research? Well, let’s say a friend tells you to go see so-and-so.
He’s a wonderful coach or counselor, but unhappily when you
meet him he reminds you of your Uncle Harry, whom you
detest. Bummer! But, no one except you knows that you’ve
always disliked your Uncle Harry.
That’s why no one else can do this research for you—
because the real question is not “Who is best?” but “Who
is best for you?” Those last two words demand that it be
you who “makes the call.”
A special word, here, to those considering paying any firm
that focuses on executives or people who make or would like to
make a high salary. (This warning is regarding firms, not
individual counselors.) If you are an executive you are
considered a fair target for any scam the mind can imagine. New
ones appear every year. I have consulted with the Federal Trade
Commission in Washington, and States Attorneys General over
the years, where they have described the scams to me in detail. I
have collected news items, done individual interviews with those
who got “taken,” and I wish I could tell you about individual
firms, but that’s not my job. Do your own research. If you are
considering signing up with any such firm, Google them first:
you will come across timely research about any firm. Example:
http://corcodilos.​com/​blog/​3219/​theladders-how-the-scam-
works-2. If you are too lazy to do this research, and
subsequently get “taken,” let me share the words a Scotsman
once said to me, when I got “taken”: “I’m sorry ya lost yer
money, but ya dinna do your homework.”
Now, for all my other readers: your dilemma is between
categories a and b on this page. How do you find an honest
counselor who knows what they’re doing, and can give you a
little bit of help, if you bog down in using this book, most
especially with chapter 8?
The first bright idea that will occur to you might be something
along the lines of “Well, I’ll just see who Bolles recommends.”
Sorry, no such luck. I rarely if ever recommend anyone. Some of
the coaches or counselors listed in the Sampler presented in
Appendix D try to claim that their very listing here constitutes a
recommendation from me. Oh, come on! They’re there because
they asked to be. I ask a few questions, but I don’t have time to
do any thorough research on them. This Sampler is more akin to
the Yellow Pages, than it is to Consumer Reports. Let me repeat
this—as I have for forty years now—and repeat it very loudly:
The listing of a career counselor or coach in this book does
NOT constitute an endorsement or recommendation by me.
Never has meant that. Never will. (Any counselor or coach
listed here who claims that it does—either in their ads, or
brochures, or publicity—gets permanently removed from
this Sampler the following year after I find out about it,
and without warning.) This is not “a hall of fame”; it is just
a Sampler of names of those who have asked to be listed,
and have answered some reasonable questions.
Consider the listings as just a starting point for your search.
You must check them out. You must do your own homework.
You must do your own research.
A Guide to Choosing a Good Career
Coach
So, how do you go about this research toward the goal of finding
a good career coach or counselor, if you decide you need more
help than this book can give you? Well, you start by collecting
three names of career coaches or counselors in your
geographical area.
How do you find those names? Several ways:
First, you can get names from your friends: ask if any of them
have ever used a career coach or counselor. And if so, did they
like ’em? And if so, what is that coach’s or counselor’s name?
And how do you get in touch with them, so you can ask them
some questions before deciding whether you want to sign up
with them, or not?
Second, you can get some names from the aforementioned
Sampler in Appendix D (which begins on this page). See if there
are any career coaches or counselors who are near you. They
may know how you can find still other names in your
community.
Need more names? Try your telephone book’s Yellow Pages,
under such headings as: Aptitude and Employment Testing,
Career and Vocational Counseling, Personnel Consultants, and
(if you are a woman) Women’s Organizations and Services.
Once you have three names, it’s time to go do some
comparison shopping. You want to talk with all three of them
and decide which of the three (if any) you want to hook up with.
What will this initial interview cost you, with each coach or
counselor? The answer to that is easy: when first setting up an
appointment, ask. You do have the right to inquire ahead of time
how much they are going to have to charge you for the
exploratory interview.
Some—a few—will charge you nothing for the initial
interview. One of the brightest counselors I know says this: I
don’t like to charge for the first interview because I want to be
free to tell them I can’t help them, if for some reason we just
don’t hit it off.
However, do not expect that most coaches or counselors can
afford to give you this exploratory interview for nothing! If they
did that, and got a lot of requests like yours, they would never
make a living.
If this is not an individual counselor, but a firm trying to sell
you a “pay-me-first” package up front, I guarantee they will give
you the initial interview for free. They plan to use that “intake”
interview (as they call it) to sell you a much more expensive
program. They will even ask you to bring your spouse or partner
along. (If they can’t persuade one of you, maybe they can
persuade the other.)
The Questions to Ask
When you are face-to-face with the coach or counselor, you ask
each of them the same questions, listed on the form below.
(Keep a little pad, notebook, or smartphone with you, so you can
write down their answers.)
After visiting the three places you chose for your comparison
shopping, you can go home, sit down, put your feet up, look
over your notes that evening, and compare those places. A chart
like this, drawn in your notebook, may help:
MY SEARCH FOR A GOOD CAREER
COUNSELOR
Click here to download a PDF of the My Search for a Good Career
Counselor Form.
You need to decide a) whether you want none of the three, or
b) one of the three (and if so, which one).
Remember, you don’t have to choose any of the three coaches,
if you didn’t really care for any of them. If that is the case, go
choose three new names out of the Yellow Pages or wherever,
dust off the notebook, and go out again. It may take a few more
hours to find what you want. But the wallet, the purse, the job-
hunt, and the life, you save will be your own.
As you look over your notes, you will soon realize there is no
definitive way for you to determine a career coach’s intentions.
It’s something you’ll have to smell out, as you go along. But
here are some clues.
Bad Vibes, On Up to Really Bad Vibes
If they give you the feeling that everything will be done for you,
by them (including interpretation of tests, and decision making
about what this means you should do, or where you should do it)
—rather than asserting that you are going to have to do almost
all the work, with their basically being your coach,
(Give them 15 bad points)
You want to learn how to do this for yourself; you’re going to
be job-hunting again, you know. That’s the nature of our world
today. Job-hunting is a repetitive activity in human life.
If you don’t like the counselor, period!
(Give them 150 bad points)
I don’t care what their expertise is, if you don’t like them,
you’re going to have a rough time getting what you want. I
guarantee it. Rapport is everything.
If you ask how long this particular counselor has been doing
this, and they get huffy or give a double-barreled answer, such
as: “I’ve had eighteen years’ experience in the business and
career counseling world,”
(Give them 20 bad points)
What that may mean is: seventeen and a half years as a
fertilizer salesman, and one half year doing career counseling.
Persist: “How long have you been with this firm, and how long
have you been doing formal career coaching or counseling, as
you are here?” You don’t want someone who’s brand-new to
advising job-hunters. They may call this “their practice,” but
what they mean is that they are practicing…on you.
If they try to answer the question of their experience by
pointing to their degrees or credentials,
(Give them 3 bad points)
Degrees or credentials tell you they’ve passed certain tests of
their qualifications, but often these tests bear more on their
expertise at career assessment, than on their knowledge of
creative job-hunting.
If, when you ask about that firm’s success rate, they say they
have never had a client who failed to find a job, no matter what,
(Give them 500 bad points)
They’re lying. I have studied career counseling programs for
more than forty years, have attended many, have studied records
at state and federal offices, and have hardly ever seen a program
that placed more than 86% of their clients, tops, in their best
years. And it goes downhill from there. A prominent executive
counseling firm was reported by the Attorney General’s Office of
New York State to have placed only 38 out of 550 clients (a 93%
failure rate). On the other hand, if they make it clear that they
have had a good success rate, but if you fail to work hard at the
whole process, then there is no guarantee you are going to find a
job, give them three stars.
If any counselor shows you letters from ecstatically happy
former clients, but when you ask to talk to some of those clients,
you get stonewalled,
(Give them 200 bad points)
Here is a job-hunter’s letter about his experience with an
executive counseling firm he was considering:
I asked to speak to a former client or clients. You
would have thought I asked to speak to Elvis. The
counselor stammered and stuttered and gave me a
million excuses why I couldn’t talk to some of these
“satisfied” former clients. None of the excuses
sounded legitimate to me. We went back and forth for
about thirty minutes. Finally, he excused himself and
went to speak to his boss, the owner. The next thing I
knew I was called into the owner’s office for a more
“personal” sales pitch. We spoke for about forty-five
minutes as he tried to convince me to use his service.
When I told him I was not ready to sign up, he became
angry and asked my counselor why I had been put
before “the committee” if I wasn’t ready to commit?
The counselor claimed I had given a verbal
commitment at our last meeting. The owner then
turned to me and said I seemed to have a problem
making a decision and that he did not want to do
business with me. I was shocked. They had turned the
whole story around to make it look like it was my
fault. I felt humiliated. In retrospect, the whole
process felt like dealing with a used car salesman.
They used pressure tactics and intimidation to try to
get what they wanted. As you have probably gathered,
more than anything else this experience made me
angry.
If you are dealing with a career counseling firm, and you ask
what is the cost of their services, and they reply that it is a lump
sum that must all be paid “up front” before you start or shortly
after you start, all at once or in rapid installments,
(Give them 300 bad points)
We’re talking about firms here, not the average individual
counselor or coach. The basic problem with firms is that both
“the good guys” and “the crooks” do this. The good guys
operate on the theory that if you give them a large sum up front,
you will then be really committed to the program. The crooks
operate on the theory that if you give them a large sum up front,
they don’t have to give you anything back, except endless
excuses and subterfuge, after a certain date (quickly reached).
And the trouble is that there is absolutely no way for you to
distinguish crook from good guy, at first impression; they only
reveal their true nature after they’ve got all your money. And by
that time, you have no legal way to get it back, no matter what
they verbally promised.1
Let me repeat: with firms that make you sign a contract and
pay basically up front, there is no way to distinguish the good
guys from the crooks. The only safe counseling is one with no
contract, and you just pay for each hour, as you use it.
I have tried for years to think of some way around this
dilemma, to be fair to the good guys, but there just is none. So if
you decide to pay up front, be sure it is money you can afford to
lose.
If Money Is a Problem for You:
Hourly Coaching
Most career coaches or counselors charge by the hour. You pay
only for each hour as you use it, according to their set rate. Each
time you keep an appointment, you pay them at the end of that
hour for their help, according to that rate. Period. Finis. You
never owe them any money (unless you made an appointment,
and failed to keep it). You can stop seeing them at any time, if
you feel you are not getting the help you wish. The fee varies
greatly. It can range from $75 an hour on up to $350 an hour and
beyond. It often keeps pace with the fees of psychiatrists or
psychologists in that neck of the woods. Counselors in cities
tend to charge more than counselors out in the country.
That fee is for individual time with the career coach or
counselor. If you can’t afford that fee, ask whether they also run
groups. If they do, the fee will be much less. And, in one of
those delightful ironies of life, since you get a chance to listen to
problems that other job-hunters in your group are having, the
group will often give you more help than an individual session
with a counselor would have. Not always; but often. It’s always
ironic when cheaper and more helpful go hand in hand.
If the career counselor in question does offer groups, there
should (again) never be a contract. The charge should be payable
at the end of each session, and you should be able to drop out at
any time, without further cost, if you decide you are not getting
the help you want.
There are some career counselors who run free (or almost
free) 
job-hunting 
workshops 
through 
local 
churches,
synagogues, chambers of commerce, community colleges, adult
education programs, and the like, as their community service or
pro bono work (as it is technically called). I have had reports of
workshops from a number of places in the U.S. and Canada.
They exist in other parts of the world as well. If money is a
problem for you, in getting help with your job-hunt, ask around
to see if workshops exist in your community. Your chamber of
commerce will know, or your church or synagogue.
If Your Location Is a Problem for You:
Distance-Coaching or Telephone-Counseling
The assumption, from the beginning, was that career counseling
would always take place face-to-face. Both of you, counselor
and job-hunter, together in the same room. Just like career
counseling’s close relatives: marriage counseling, or even AA.
Of course, a job-hunter might—on occasion—phone his or her
counselor the day before an interview, to get some last-minute
tips or to answer some questions that a prospective interviewer
might ask, tomorrow.
What is different, today, is that in some cases, career
counseling is being conducted exclusively over the phone from
start to finish. Some counselors now report that they haven’t laid
eyes on over 90% of their clients, and wouldn’t know them if
they bumped into them on a street corner. I call this “distance-
coaching” or “telephone-counseling.”
With the invention of the Internet, with the invention of
Internet telephoning, we are witnessing “the death of
distance”—that is to say, the death of distance as an obstacle.
The world, as the wonderful New York Times columnist Thomas
Friedman has famously written, is in effect flat.
An increasing number of counselors or executive coaches are
doing this distance-counseling. This increasing availability of
“distance-counseling” is good news, and bad news.
Why good news? Well, in the old days you might be a job-
hunter in some remote village, with a population of only eighty-
five, back in the hills somewhere, or you might be living
somewhere in France or in China, miles from any career
counselor or coach, and so, be totally out of luck. Now, these
days you can be anywhere in the world, but as long as you have
the Internet on your desk or in your hand, you can still connect
with the best distance-counseling there is.
And the bad news?
Well, just because a counselor or coach does distance-
counseling or phone-counseling, doesn’t mean they are really
good at doing it. Some are superb; but some are not. So, you’re
still going to have to research any distance-counselor very
carefully.
It is altogether too easy for a counselor to get sloppy doing
distance-counseling—for example, browsing the newspapers
while you are telling some long personal story, etc., to which
they are giving only the briefest attention. (Of course, the
increasingly wider use of video calling programs such as Skype
may cure that!)
You must always remember: distance-counseling, attractive as
it will be for many, as necessary as it will be for some, definitely
has its limits.
To the caveman, the technology that enables all this to happen
in this twenty-first century, would be jaw-droppingly awesome.
But, good career counseling or coaching is not just about
technology. What is really truly awesome, in the end, is our
power to help each other on this Earth. And how much that
power resides, not in techniques or technology—though these
things are important—but in each of us just being a good human
being. And a loving human being.
A Sampler
The following appendix is exactly what its name implies: a
Sampler. Were I to list all the career coaches and counselors
there are in the U.S. (never mind the world), we would end up
with a very large encyclopedia. In fact, some people have
published encyclopedic lists of counselors and businesses in
particular cities or states; your local bookstore or library should
have these, in their Job-Hunting Section, under such titles as
“How to Get a Job in…” or “Job-Hunting in…” Denver, or
wherever.
Now, as to this Sampler here, let me emphasize this: I did not
choose the places listed here; rather, they asked to be listed,
and I pass on their information to you simply as a suggestion—
when you’re trying to find decent help—of where to begin your
investigations.
Do keep in mind that many truly helpful places and coaches
are not listed here. If you discover such a coach or such a place,
which is very good at helping people with Parachute or what I
call creative job-hunting, do send us their pertinent information.
We will ask them, as we do all the listings here, a few intelligent
questions, and if they sound okay, we will add that place in next
year’s edition as a possible place for your consideration and
investigation.2
What kind of questions? This directory appears nowhere but
in this book, so we may presume you are interested in this
book’s approach, and if you need a little help it is help with the
process in this book. We tried being broader in the past—there
are obviously excellent counselors out there who have never
heard of this book—but it turned out that our readers wanted
counselors and places that have some expertise with Parachute,
and can help job-hunters or career-changers finish the job-hunt
in this book.
So, if they’ve never even heard of Parachute, we don’t list
them anymore. But even among those who have, we can’t
automatically assume they’re good at what they do, no matter
how many questions we asked them. So we list them and leave
the research to you.
You must do your own sharp questioning before you decide to
go with anyone. If you don’t take time to research two or three
places, before choosing a counselor, you will deserve whatever
you get (or, more to the point, don’t get). So, please, do some
research.
The listings that follow are alphabetical within each state, with
counselors listed by their name in alphabetical order, according
to their last name.
Some offer group career counseling, some offer testing, some
offer access to job-banks, etc. Ask.
One final note: places and counselors listed here have said
they counsel anyone; 99% of them can absolutely be trusted, in
this. A few, however, may turn out to have restrictions unknown
to us (“we counsel only women,” or “we only deal with alumni,”
etc.). If that turns out to be the case, your time isn’t necessarily
wasted. They may be able to refer you to somebody helpful. So,
ask them, “Who else in the area can you tell me about, who
helps with job-searches, and are there any (among them) that
you think are particularly effective?” (Also, write us and let us
know about the limited counseling, so we can remove them from
this Sampler next year.)
Area Codes
If you call a phone number in the Sampler that is any distance
geographically from you, and they tell you “this number cannot
be completed as dialed,” the most likely explanation is that the
area code was changed—maybe some time ago. Throughout the
U.S. now, area codes are subdividing constantly, sometimes
more than once during a short time span. (We ask counselors
listed here to notify us when the area code changes, but some do
and some don’t.) Anyway, call Information and check, or look
up their phone number on the Web.
Of course, if you’re calling a local counselor, you won’t need
the area code (unless you live in one of the metropolitan areas in
the U.S. that requires ten-digit dialing).
1. Sometimes the written contract—there is always a written contract,
when you are dealing with the bad guys, and they will probably ask
your partner to sign it, too—will claim to provide for an almost
complete refund, at any time, until you reach a cutoff date in the
program, which the contract specifies. Unfortunately, fraudulent firms
bend over backward to be extra nice, extra available, and extra helpful
to you, from the time you first walk in, until that cutoff point is
reached. Therefore, when the cutoff point for getting a refund has
passed, you let it pass because you are very satisfied with their past
services, and believe there will be many more weeks of the same. Only,
there aren’t. At fraudulent firms, once the cutoff point is passed, the
career counselor suddenly becomes virtually impossible for you to get
ahold of. Call after call will not be returned. You will say to yourself,
“What happened?” Well, what happened, my friend, is that you paid up
in full, they have all the money they’re ever going to get out of you,
and now, they want to move on.
2. Yearly readers of this book will notice that we do remove people from
this Sampler, without warning. First of all, there are accidents: we drop
places we didn’t mean to, but a typographical error was made,
somehow (it happens). Oops! Counselor or coach: call this to our
attention; we’ll put you back in next year.
But accidents aside, we do deliberately remove the following: places
that have moved, and don’t bother to send us their new address.
Coaches and counselors: If you are listed here, we expect you to be a
professional at communication. When you move, your first priority
should be to let us know, immediately. As one exemplary counselor
wrote: “You are the first person I am contacting on my updated
letterhead…hot off the press just today!” So it should always be, if you
want to continue to be listed here. A number of places get removed
every year, precisely because of their sloppiness in keeping us up-to-
date with their phone and other contact information.
Other causes for removal: Places that have disconnected their
telephone, or otherwise suggest that they have gone out of business.
Places that our readers lodge complaints against with us, as being
unhelpful or even obnoxious. The complaints may be falsified, but we
can’t take that chance. Places that change their personnel, and the new
person has never even heard of Parachute, or “creative job-search
techniques.” College services that we discover (belatedly) serve only
“Their Own.” Counseling firms that employ salespeople as the initial
“intake” person that a job-hunter meets. If you discover that any of the
places listed in this Sampler fall into any of the above categories, you
would be doing a great service to our other readers by dropping us a
line and telling us so (1770 Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94115).
APPENDIX D
Sampler List of Coaches
* Throughout this Sampler, an asterisk before their name means they have
said they offer religious counseling as well as secular—“religious” here,
means they’re not afraid to have you talk about God, if what you’re looking
for is not just a job but help in finding your Vocation and Calling.
UNITED STATES
Alabama
Chemsak, Maureen J., LPC, NCC, MCC
St. Joseph the Worker Job Networking Club
1055 Hughes Rd.
Madison, AL 35758
Phone: 256-520-7650
Email: mjchemsak104@gmail.​com
www.​sjwjobclub.​org
On the Same Page Consulting
Work/Life Planning Retreat Center
1950 Stonegate Dr., Ste. 300
Birmingham, AL 35243
Phone: 205-533-0429; 205-977-3908
Contact: Michael Alan Tate
Email: Michael@onthesamepg.​com
www.​onthesamepg.​com
Woods, Andrea Wilson, MPW, ACC
Build Your BLISS LLC
1919 Oxmoor Rd., Ste. 257
Birmingham, AL 35209
Phone 205-536-6888
Email: andrea@andreawilsonwoods.​com
Alaska
Career Transitions
4141 B St., Ste. 308
Anchorage, AK 99503
Phone: 907-274-4500
Fax: 907-274-4510
Contact: Deeta Lonergan, President
Email: deeta@alaska.​net
www.​careertransitions.​biz
Arizona
Boninger, Faith, PhD
10965 E. Mary Katherine Dr.
Scottsdale, AZ 85259
Phone: 480-390-6736
Email: faithgboninger@gmail.​com
Passport to Purpose
7735 East Bravo Ln.
Prescott Valley, AZ 86314
Phone: 928-775-4949
Contact: Cathy Severson, MS
Email: cathy@passporttopurpose.​com
www.​passporttopurpose.​com
www.​retirementlifematters.​com
Renaissance Career Solutions
PO Box 30118
Phoenix, AZ 85046-0118
Phone: 602-867-4202
Contact: Betty Boza, MA, LCC
Email: bboza@att.​net
http://bboza-ivil.​tripod.​com
California
California Career Services
6024 Wilshire Blvd.
Los Angeles, CA 90036
Phone: 323-933-2900
Fax: 323-933-9929
Contact: Susan Wise Miller, MA
Email: susan@californiacareerservices.​com
www.​californiacareerservices.​com
Career Balance
PO Box 2622
Vista, CA 92085
Phone: 760-633-9707
Contact: Virginia Byrd, MEd, Career and Work-Life Consultant
Email: lifeworks@sbcglobal.​net
*Career Choices
Dublin, CA
Contact: Dana E. Ogden, MS Ed, CCDV
Email: dana@careerchoices.​us
www.​careerchoices.​us
Career Counseling and Assessment Associates
9229 W. Sunset Blvd., Ste. 502
Los Angeles, CA 90069
Phone: 310-274-3423
Contact: Dianne Y. Sundby, PhD,
Director and Psychologist
Email: DYSD99@aol.​com
www.​dscounseling.​com
Career and Personal Development Institute
582 Market St., Ste. 410
San Francisco, CA 94104
Phone: 415-982-2636
Contact: Bob Chope
www.​cpdicareercounseling.​com
Center for Career Growth and Development
453 Alberto Way, Ste. 257D
Los Gatos, CA 95032
Phone: 408-354-7150
Contact: Steven E. Beasley
Email: stevenbeasley@verizon.​net
*Center for Life & Work Planning
1133 Second St.
Encinitas, CA 92024
Phone/Fax: 760-943-0747
Contact: Mary C. McIsaac,
Executive Director
*Cheney-Rice, Stephen, MS
2113 Westboro Ave.
Alhambra, CA 91803-3720
Phone: 626-824-5244
Email: sccheneyrice@earthlink.​net
Coaches Certification in Job and Career Transition
Contact: Richard (Dick) Knowdell
Email: rknowdell@mac.​com
www.​CareerNetwork.​Org
(Dick offers three-day counselors’ certification workshops, limited to
twenty-four participants; over the past forty years, he has trained and
certified six thousand career counselors.)
Collaborative Solutions
3130 W. Fox Run Way
San Diego, CA 92111
Phone: 858-268-9340
Contact: Nancy Helgeson, MA, LMFT, BCC
Email: nhelgeson@san.​rr.​com
Experience Unlimited Job Clubs
There are many Experience Unlimited clubs in California, found in the
State’s Employment Development Departments (EDD) in the following
locations: Anaheim, Canoga Park, Contra Costa, Fremont, Fresno, Irvine,
Lancaster, Manteca, Murrieta, Pasadena, San Francisco, San Rafael, Santa
Barbara, Santa Cruz/Capitola, Santa Maria, Simi Valley, Sunnyvale,
Torrance, West Covina.
Contact the chapter nearest you through your local EDD office. Details:
http://www.​edd.​ca.​gov/​jobs_and_training/​
Experience_Unlimited_for_Job_Seekers.​htm
*Frangquist, Deborah Gavrin, MS
Chosen Futures
1801 Bush St., Ste. 121
San Francisco, CA 94109
Phone: 415-346-6121
Email: Deborah@ChosenFutures.​com
www.​ChosenFutures.​com
Geary & Associates, Inc.
1400 Guerneville Rd., #9
Santa Rosa, CA 95403
Phone: 707-525-8085
Fax: 707-528-8088
Contact: Jack Geary, MA or Edelweiss Geary, MEd, CRC
Email: esgeary@sbcglobal.​net
www.​gearyassociates.​com
Hilliard, Larkin, MA
Counseling Psychology
250 Curtner Ave., Apt. 3
Palo Alto, CA 94306
Phone: 805-680-3496
Email: larkinhilliard@yahoo.​com
(Speaks English, French, German, and Russian)
HRS
4421 Alla Rd., #2
Marina del Rey, CA 90292
Phone: 310-577-0972
Contact: Nancy Mann, MBA
Career Coach, Human Resources Consultant
Email: nanmanhrs@aol.​com
Larsen, Lauralyn
Career Counselor & Coach
Santa Rosa, CA 95401
Phone: 707-363-7775
Email: lauralynlarsen@hotmail.​com
Mohler, Liz, & Associates
7826 W. 79th St.
Playa del Rey, CA 90293
Phone: 310-617-1294
Email: lizmohler@ca.​rr.​com
Nemko, Marty, PhD
Career and Education Strategist
5936 Chabolyn Terr.
Oakland, CA 94618
Phone: 510-655-2777
Email: mnemko@comcast.​net
www.​martynemko.​com
Nick Parham Career Counseling, Resumes & Interview Training
4724 25th St., Ste. A
San Francisco, CA 94114
Phone: 415-648-7377
Contact: Nick Parham,
Career & Life Coach
Email: npcoach@gmail.​com
www.​nickparham.​com
Pasquale, Laura E., Ph.D.
2604-B El Camino Real, Ste. 184
Carlsbad, CA 92008
Phone: 760-207-3693
Email: laurae@lauraepasqualeconsulting.​com
www.​lauraepasqualeconsulting.​com
Piazzale, Steve, PhD
Career/Life Coach
Mountain View, CA
Phone: 650-743-6928
Email: Steve@BayAreaCareerCoach.​com
www.​BayAreaCareerCoach.​com
*Roth, Allie
Career Transitions and Encore Career Coach
Center for Creativity and Work
228 Carmel Ave.
El Cerrito, CA 94530
Phone: 510-526-1600
Email: allie@allieroth.​com
www.​allieroth.​com
Saraf, Dilip G.
Career and Worklife Strategist
Career Transitions Unlimited
39159 Paseo Padre Pkwy., #221
Fremont, CA 94538
Phone: 510-791-7005
Email: dilip@7keys.​org
www.​7keys.​org
*Schoenbeck, Mary Lynne, MA, NCCC, MCC
Career/Retirement Counselor,
Coach, Consultant
Schoenbeck & Associates
Los Altos, CA
Phone: 650-964-8370
Email: schoenbeck@mindspring.​com
Struntz and Associates
Career Development & Job Search Consulting
Saint Helena, CA 94574
Phone: 707-738-2004
Contact: Wolfgang Struntz, MA
Email: Struntz@netwiz.​net
Transitions Counseling Center
171 N. Van Ness Ave.
Fresno, CA 93701
Phone: 559-233-7250
Contact: Margot E. Tepperman, MA, LCSW, ACC
Email: mtepperman@aol.​com
www.​transitionscoaching.​com
Wellenstein, Carl
Employment Consultant/Career Strategist
President, ExecGlobalNet, and author of 12 Steps to a New Career
Carlsbad, CA 92010
Phone: 310-489-3115
Email: cwellenstein@execglobalnet.​com
www.​ExecGlobalNet.​com
(Does Skype or telephone interviews.)
Wilson, Patti
Career Company
PO Box 35633
Los Gatos, CA 95030
Phone: 408-354-1964
Email: patti@careercompany.​com
www.​pattiwilson.​com
Zenoff, Victoria
Richmond, CA
Phone: 510-526-5210
Email: vzenoff@gmail.​com
www.​victoriazenoff.​com
(Victoria taught with me for many years and is coauthor with me of The
Beginning Job-Hunting Map.)
Colorado
Arapahoe Community College
Career Center
Career Planning Seminars
Job Postings
5900 S. Santa Fe Dr.
PO Box 9002
Littleton, CO 80160-9002
Phone: 303-797-5805
Email: careers@arapahoe.​edu
Gary Ringler & Associates
1747 Washington St., #203
Denver, CO 80203
Phone: 303-863-0234
Email: garyringler@msn.​com
Women’s Resource Agency
750 Citadel Dr. E., Ste. 312B
Colorado Springs, CO 80909
Phone: 719-471-3170
www.​wrainc.​org
Connecticut
Accord Career Services, LLC
Salmon Brook Corporate Park
155 East Main St.
Wallingford, CT 06492
Phone: 860-674-9654 or 860-508-1026
Contact: Tod Gerardo, MS, Director
Email: tod@accordcareerservices.​com
www.​accordcareerservices.​com
Career Development Counseling & Consulting
22 Montclair Dr.
West Hartford, CT 06107
Phone: 860-874-1367
Contact: Eleta Jones, PhD, LPC
Email: eletajones@gmail.​com
www.​eletajones.​com
The Offerjost-Westcott Group
263 Main St., Ste. 100
Old Saybrook, CT 06475
Phone: 860-388-6094
Contact: Russ Westcott
Email: russwest@snet.​net
Pannone, Bob, MA
Career Specialist
62 Lane St.
Huntington, CT 06484
Phone: 203-513-2290
Email: upstartinc@yahoo.​com
Preis, Roger J.
RPE Career Dynamics
Stamford, CT
Email: rjpreis@rpecareers.​com
www.​rpecareers.​com
Delaware
Bronson, Kris, PhD
1409 Foulk Rd., Ste. 204
Foulkstone Plaza
Wilmington, DE 19803
Phone: 302-477-0708, ext. 4
www.​krisbronsonphd.​com
District of Columbia
Roggenkamp, Robin
Certified Career and Leadership Coach
Washington, DC area (NoVa)
Phone: 703-298-2964
Email: robin@myauthenticcareer.​com
www.​myauthenticcareer.​com
The Women’s Center
1025 Vermont Ave. NW, Ste. 310
Washington, DC 20005
Phone: 202-293-4580
www.​thewomenscenter.​org
Florida
Career Choices Unlimited
4465 Baymeadows Rd., Ste. 7
Jacksonville, FL 32217
Phone: 904-443-0059 or 904-262-9470
Contact: Marilyn A. Feldstein, MPA,
JCTC, MBTI, PHR, Career Coach and Professional Speaker
www.​careerchoicesunlimited.​com
Chabon-Berger, Toby, MEd, NCC, NCCC
Career and Professional
Development Coach
4900 Boxwood Circle
Boynton Beach, FL 33436
Phone: 561-596-3656
Email: tberger@chabongroup.​com
The Clarity Group
PO Box 110084
Lakewood Ranch, FL 34211
Phone: 941-388-8108
Contact: George H. Schofield, PhD
Email: george.​schofield@clarity-group.​com
www.​clarity-group.​com
Cohen, James, PhD
11134 Malaysia Cir.
Boynton Beach, FL 33437
Fax/Phone: 561-509-9150
Email: vocdoc56@yahoo.​com
Focus on the Future:Displaced Homemaker Program
Santa Fe College
3000 NW 83rd St., I-40
Gainesville, FL 32606
Phone: 352-395-5047
Contacts: Nancy Griffin
or JoAnn Wilkes
Email: focusonthefuture@sfcollege.​edu
http://​www.​sfcollege.edu/​DisplacedHomemakers/ (Classes are free.)
Life Designs, Inc.
19526 E. Lake Dr.
Miami, FL 33015
Phone: 305-829-9008
Contact: Dulce Muccio Weisenborn
Email: dmw@lifedesigns-inc.​com
www.​lifedesigns-inc.​com
TransitionWorks
Delray Beach, FL
Phone: 301-233-4287
Contact: Nancy K. Schlossberg, EdD, Principal
Email: nancyks4@gmail.​com
Contact: Stephanie Kay, MA, LCPC, Principal
Email: stephaniekay4@gmail.​com
Georgia
Ashkin Counseling & Training
Alpharetta, GA
Phone: 678-773-0097
Contact: Ashkin, Janis, MEd, MCC, NCC, NCCC
Email: jashkin@bellsouth.​net
Career Indulgence
Specialist for High School and College Students
Atlanta, GA
Phone: 404-642-8189
Contact: Crystal Kadakia, Certified Career Coach
Email: Crystal@CareerIndulgence.​com
Career Quest/Job Search Workshop
St. Ann’s Catholic Church
4905 Roswell Rd. NE
Marietta, GA 30062-6240
Phone: 770-552-6400 ext. 6104
Contact: John Marotto
Email: careerquest-sa@comcast.​net
www.​st-ann.org/​career_quest.​php
*Crossroads Career Network
Phone: 800-941-3566
Contact: Brian Ray
Email: brian@crossroadscareer.​org
www.​crossroadscareer.​org
(This network consists of over 100 locations. Network Founder Brian Ray is
author of a 2015 book for pastors and ministry leaders: Created for Good
Works: Why the Church Should Help People Find Jobs, Careers and God’s
Calling.)
D & B Consulting, Inc.
3355 Lenox Rd., Ste. 750
Atlanta, GA 30326
Phone: 404-504-7079
Contact: Deborah R. Brown, SPHR, MBA, MSW, Career Consultant
Email: Debbie@DandBconsulting.​com
www.​dandbconsulting.​com
Satterfield, Mark
720 Rio Grand Dr.
Alpharetta, GA 30022
Phone: 770-643-8566
Email: msatt@mindspring.​com
Waldorf, William H., MBA, LPC
Path Unfolding Career Development
5755 North Point Parkway, Ste. 39
Alpharetta, GA 30022
Phone: 678-822-5505
Email: wwaldorf@earthlink.​net
Hawaii
Samtry, Robert M., MD, PhD
Performance and Career Coaching
Life & Success Adventures, LLC
986 Alaea St.
Makawao, Maui, Hawaii 96768
Phone 808-276-0835; 808-572-0472
Email: drrmsantry@gmail.​com
Idaho
*Career Coaching 4U Unretirement Counseling to Counseling, LPC
9882 W. View Dr.
Boise, ID 83704
Phone: 208-323-2462
Contact: Michael W. Reed, MEd, MS Counseling, LPC
Email: michael@careercoaching4u.​com
www.​careercoaching4u.​com
*Clear Change Group
212 W Ironwood Dr., #358
Coeur d’Alene, ID 83814
Phone: 208-292-4701
Contact: Audrey Seymour, MA, MCC
Email: inquiry@clearchangegroup.​com
www.​clearchangegroup.​com
*Landgraf, John, MDiv, PhD
Career Counselor/Life Coach
PO Box 2244
Post Falls, ID 83877
Phone: 650-868-3947
Email: jrlandgraf@landgrafmusic.​com
www.​landgrafretreats.​com
Illinois
*Career Path
1240 Iroquois Avenue, Ste. 100
Naperville, IL 60563
Phone: 630-369-3390
Contact: Donna Sandberg, MA, NCC, MCC, LCPC
Email: careerpathccds@gmail.​com
www.​career-path.​org
Career Vision/The Ball Foundation
526 N. Main St.
Glen Ellyn, IL 60137
Phone: 800-469-8378
Contact: Peg Hendershot, Executive Director;
Mary Hanney, MSEd, MBA, LCPC; Nancy Ryan Krane, PhD
Email: info@careervision.​org
www.​careervision.​org
www.​ballfoundation.​org
Davis, Jean, MA
Counseling Psychology, specializing in adult career transitions
1405 Elmwood Ave.
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: 847-492-1002
Email: jdavis@careertransitions.​net
Dolan Career & Rehabilitation Consulting, Ltd.
307 Henry St., Ste. 411
Alton, IL 62002
Phone: 618-474-5328
Fax: 618-462-3359
Contact: J. Stephen Dolan, MA, CRC,
Career & Rehabilitation Consultant
Email: dolanrehab@att.​net
Grimard Wilson Consulting, Inc.
333 W. Wacker Dr., Ste. 500
Chicago, IL 60606
Phone: 312-925-5176
Contact: Diane Wilson, LCPC, BCN
Email: diane.​g.​wilson@gmail.​com
www.​grimardwilson.​com
Harper College Community Career Services
1200 W. Algonquin Rd., Rm. A-347
Palatine, IL 60067
Phone: 847-925-6220
Contact: Kathleen Canfield, Director
Email: careercenter@harpercollege.​edu
www.​harpercollege.​edu
Inspired Career Options
PO Box 7174
Buffalo Grove, IL 60089
Phone: 847-808-9982
Contact: Deb Morton, Certified Executive Career & Entrepreneur Coach
Email: deb@inspiredcareeroptions.​com
www.​inspiredcareeroptions.​com
*Lansky Career Consultants
115 N. LaSalle St., Ste. 2600
Chicago, IL 60603
Phone: 312-494-0022
Contact: Judith Puttock, BBA, CHRL, ATC
Email: jlansky@lanskycareerconsultants.​com
www.​lanskycareerconsultants.​com
Moraine Valley Community College
Job Resource Center
9000 College Pkwy.
Palos Hills, IL 60465
Phone: 708-974-5737
www.​morainevalley.​edu/​jrc
University of Illinois
The Career Center
Phone: 217-244-1497
Contact: Gail Rooney, Director
Email: grooney@Illinois.​edu
(For contacts at the other Illinois Career Services offices, use hireillini.​
com.)
Iowa
Sucher, Billie, MS, CTMS, CTSB, JCTC, CCM
Private Practice Career Transition
Consultant
7177 Hickman Rd., Ste. 10
Des Moines, IA 50322
Phone: 515-276-0061
Email: billie@billiesucher.​com
www.​billiesucher.​com
Zilber, Suzanne, PhD
Licensed Psychologist
Catalyst Counseling
600 5th St., Ste. 302
Ames, IA 50010-6072
Phone: 515-232-5340
Fax: 515-232-2070
www.​catalystcounseling.​com
Kentucky
Career Span, Inc.
620 Euclid Ave., Ste. 210
Lexington, KY 40502
Phone: 859-233-7726 (233-SPAN)
Contact: Carla Ockerman-Hunter, MA, MCC, NCC
Email: careerspan@aol.​com
www.​careerspanUSA.​com
Louisiana
Career Center
River Center Branch, EBR Parish Library
7711 Goodwood Blvd.
Baton Rouge, LA 70806
Phone: 225-381-8434
Fax: 225-389-8910
Contact: Anne Nowak, Program Director
Email: anowak@careercenterbr.​com
www.​careercenterbr.​com
Maine
Heart at Work Associates
Career Counseling, Outplacement Services, Second Half of Life Career
Transitions
22 Free St., Ste. 201
Portland, ME 04101
Phone: 207-775-6400
Contact: Barbara Babkirk, Master Career Counselor
Email: barb@heartatworkassociates.​com
www.​heartatworkassociates.​com
Women’s Worth Career Counseling
9 Village Ln.
Westbrook, ME 04092
Phone: 207-856-6666
Contact: Jacqueline Murphy,
Career Counselor
Email: wethepeople@maine.​rr.​com
Maryland
The Career Evaluation and Coaching Center
21 West Rd., Ste. 150
Baltimore, MD 21204
Phone: 410-825-0042
Fax: 410-825-0310
Contact: Ralph D. Raphael, PhD
Email: drraphael@ralphraphael.​com
www.​ralphraphael.​com
CTS Consulting, Inc.
3126 Berkshire Rd.
Baltimore, MD 21214-3404
Phone: 410-444-5857
Cell Phone: 443-286-2488
Contact: Michael Bryant
Email: mb3126@gmail.​com
www.​go2ctsonline.​com
Friedman, Lynn, PhD, MCC
Psychologist, Psychoanalyst,
Work-Life Consultant
Johns Hopkins University
5480 Wisconsin Ave., Ste. 206
Chevy Chase, MD 20815
Phone: 301-656-9050
Email: drlynnfriedman@verizon.​net
www.​drlynnfriedman.​com
Horizons Unlimited, Inc.
17501 McDade Ct.
Rockville, MD 20855
Phone: 301-258-9338
Contact: Marilyn Goldman,
LPC, NCCC, MCC
Email: horizons@career-counseling.​com
www.​career-counseling.​com
Positive Passages Life/Career Transition Counseling and Coaching
4702 Falstone Ave.
Chevy Chase, MD 20815
Phone: 301-580-5162
Contact: Jeanette Kreiser, EdD
Email: jskreiser@yahoo.​com
Prince George’s Community College
Career Services
301 Largo Rd.
Largo, MD 20774
Phone: 301-322-0109
Contact: H. Randall Poole, Manager of Career Services or Stephanie Pair,
Senior Career Advisor
Email: Career_Job@pgcc.​edu
www.​pgcc.​edu
TransitionWorks
Rockville, MD
Phone: 301-233-4287
Contact: Nancy K. Schlossberg, EdD, Principal
Email: nancyks4@gmail.​com
Stephanie Kay, MA, LCPC, Principal
Email: stephaniekay4@gmail.​com
Massachusetts
Berke & Price Associates
Newtown Way #6
Chelmsford, MA 01824
Phone: 978-256-0482
Contact: Judit E. Price, MS, CDFI, IJCTC, CCM, CPRW, Career
Consultant, Certified Resume Writer, and Brand Specialist
Email: jprice@careercampaign.​com
The Boston Career Coach
26 Shanley St.
Brighton, MA 02135
Phone: 617-254-0791
Contact: Tom Jackson
www.​thebostoncareercoach.​com
Career in Progress
2 Marie Ann Dr.
Westford, MA 01886
Phone: 617-925-5289
Fax: 781-407-0955
Contact: Heather Maietta, EdD, GCDF, JCDC, CPRW, Career and
Professional
Development Coach
Email: info@careerinprogress.​com
www.​careerinprogress.​com
*Career Management Consultants
108 Grove St., Ste. 204
Worcester, MA 01605
Phone: 508-756-9998
Contact: Patricia Stepanski Plouffe,
Founder/Consultant
Email: info@careermc.​com
*Career Resources|Nashville ~ Boston
10 Old Neck Rd.
Manchester, MA 01944
Phone: 615-957-0404
Contact: Jane C. Hardy, Founder and Strategic Career Counselor
Email: JHardy@CareerResources.​net
www.​CareerResources.​net
Career Source
186 Alewife Brook Pkwy., Ste. 310
Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone: 617-661-7867
www.​yourcareersource.​com
*Center for Career Development & Ministry
30 Milton St., Ste. 107
Dedham, MA 02026
Phone: 781-329-2100
Fax: 781-407-0955
Email: info@ccdmin.​org
www.​ccdmin.​org
Hadlock, Joanne, EdD, NCCC
Career/Life Transitions
223 Sandy Pond Rd.
Lincoln, MA 01773
Phone: 781-259-3752
Email: joannehadlock@comcast.​net
www.​joannehadlock.​us
Jewish Vocational Service, Career Moves
29 Winter St., 5th Fl.
Boston, MA 02108
Phone: 617-399-3131
Contact: Judy Sacks, Director
www.​career-moves.​org
JVS CareerSolution
Career Counseling and Testing
61 Chapel St.
Newton, MA 02458
Phone: 617-795-1964
Contact: Amy Mazur, Career Counselor
Email: amazur@jvs-boston.​org
www.​career-moves.​org
*Liebhaber, Gail, MEd
1 Richdale Ave., Ste. 7
Cambridge, MA 02140
Phone: 781-820-5310
Contact: Gail Liebhaber, MEd
Email: gail@yourcareerdirection.​com
www.​yourcareerdirection.​com
Miller, Wynne W.
Leadership Coaching
Brookline, MA 02446-4707
Phone: 617-232-4848
Email: wynne@win-coaching.​com
www.​win-coaching.​com
Szekely, Bill
10 Doral Dr.
N. Chelmsford, MA 01863
Phone: 978-423-3196
Email: TheParachute@me.​com
Wilson, Jim, ICF
Canavan & Reid, LLC
10 Rowes Wharf, Ste. 903
Boston, MA 02110
Phone: 508-335-4242
Email: Jim@CanavanReid.​com
Michigan
*Careers Through Faith
3025 Boardwalk St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48108
Phone: 734-332-8800, ext. 228
Contact: Cathy Synko
Email: Cathy@CareersThroughFaith.​org
www.​CareersThroughFaith.​org
*Christian Career Center
PO Box 362
Howell, MI 48843
Phone: 517-552-0328
Contact: Kevin Brennfleck, MA, NCCC or Kay Marie Brennfleck, MA,
NCCC
Email: staff@ChristianCareerCenter.​com
www.​ChristianCareerCenter.​com
(Does distance-counseling by phone.)
Freeney, Cindy J., LMSW
Grand Rapids, MI
Phone: 616-443-9549
Email: CindyJFreeney@gmail.​com
(Forty years empowering others through the Parachute process.)
*Keystone Coaching & Consulting, LLC
22 Cherry St.
Holland, MI 49423
Phone: 616-405-1497
Contact: Mark de Roo
Email: mderoo@keystonecoach.​com
www.​keystonecoach.​com
*LifeSteward/EaRN Employment & Resource Network
6918 Glencreek Dr. SE
Caledonia, MI 49316
Phone: 616-813-4998
Contact: Ken Soper, MDiv, MA, MCC, NCCC
Email: careerken@gmail.​com
www.​kensoper.​com
New Options Town & Country Counseling
Careers, education, human/animal bond, creative arts and creative pursuits,
relocation and lifestyle choices
Ann Arbor, MI
Phone: 734-973-8699 or 734-276-3606
Contact: Phyllis Perry, MSW, MFA
Email: pepstar27@yahoo.​com
Synko Associates, LLC
3025 Boardwalk, Ste. 120
Ann Arbor, MI 48108
Phone: 734-332-8800, ext. 212
Email: csynko@SynkoAssociates.​com
www.​SynkoAssociates.​com
Minnesota
*North Central Ministry Development Center
An Interdenominational Church Career Development Center
516 Mission House Ln.
New Brighton, MN 55112
Phone: 651-636-5120
Contact: Mark Sundby, MDiv, PhD, LP,
Executive Director
Email: ncmdc@comcast.​net
www.​ncmdc.​org
* Nydam, Clara Hurd, MDiv, MCC, SPHR
2914 21st Ln. NW
New Brighton, MN 55112
Phone: 608-516-0566
Email: clara@claranydam.​com
www.​claranydam.​com
Prototype Career Service
626 Armstrong Ave.
St. Paul, MN 55102
Phone: 800-368-3197
Contact: Amy Lindgren,
Job Search Strategist
Email: getajob@prototypecareerservice.​com
www.​prototypecareerservice.​com
Missouri
Eigles, Lorrie, PCC, MSED, LPC
Life, Career and Retirement Coach and Visual Artist
My Authentic Life Coaching
432 W. 62nd Terr.
Kansas City, MO 64113
Phone: 816-363-4171
Email: Lorrie@myauthenticlifecoaching.​com
http://myauthenticlifecoaching.​com
The Job Doctor
505 S. Ewing Ave.
St. Louis, MO 63103
Phone: 314-863-1166
Contact: M. Rose Jonas, PhD
Email: Rose@RoseJonas.​com
www.​rosejonas.​com
MU Career Center
201 Student Success Center
909 Lowry Mall
University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
Phone: 573-882-6801
Fax: 573-882-5440
Contact: Craig Benson
Email: career@missouri.​edu
http://career.​missouri.​edu
Patricia Katzfey Counseling LLC
222 South Merimec, Ste. 303
St. Louis, MO 63105
Phone: 314-540-9558
Contact: Patricia Katzfey
Werner Associates, LLC
2200A Yale Avenue
St. Louis, MO 63143
Phone: 314-644-2221
Contact: Wendy L. Werner
Email: wendy@wendywerner.​com
www.​wendywerner.com/​associates
Women’s Center
University of Missouri-Kansas City
5100 Rockhill Rd., 105 Haag Hall
Kansas City, MO 64110
Phone: 816-235-1638
Contact: Brenda Bethman, Director
Email: umkc-womens-center@umkc.​edu
www.​umkc.​edu/​womenc
Montana
Career Transitions
189 Arden Dr.
Belgrade, MT 59714
Phone: 406-388-6701
Contact: Darla Joyner, Executive Director
Email: ct@careertransitions.​com
www.​careertransitions.​com
Christen, Carol
Consultant, Career & Job Search Strategy
Butte, MT
Phone: 406-491-6160
Email: carol@carolchristen.​com
www.​parachute4teens.​com
(Carol taught with me for many years and is the author of What Color Is
Your Parachute? For Teens.)
New Hampshire
Individual Employment Services (I.E.S)
1 New Hampshire Ave., Ste. 125
Portsmouth, NH 03801
Phone: 603-570-4850
or 800-734-JOBS (5627)
Fax: 603-766-1901
Contact: James Otis, Principal, Career Counselor/Recruiter or Anita Labell,
Principal, Certified Professional Resume Writer/Career Coach
Email: ies@iosnh.​com
Tucker, Janet, MEd
Career Counselor
Exeter, NH
Phone: 603-772-8693
Email: jbtucker@comcast.​net
New Jersey
*CareerQuest
1175 Irvin Ave., Ste. 1
Union, NJ 07083
Phone: 908-377-9015
Contact: Don Sutaria, MS, IE (Prof.), PE
Founder, President, and Life-Work Coach
Email: don@careerquestcentral.​com
www.​careerquestcentral.​com
Creating Life Options
Mendham, NJ
Phone: 201-874-3264 or 973-543-3458
Contact: Katie McGinty
Email: katie@creatinglifeoptions.​com
www.​creatinglifeoptions.​com
Job Seekers of Montclair
St. Luke’s Episcopal Church
73 S. Fullerton Ave.
Montclair, NJ 07042
Phone: 973-783-3442
www.​jobseekersofmontclair.​org
(Meets Wednesdays, 7:30–9:15 p.m., free of charge)
JobSeekers in Princeton
Trinity Church
33 Mercer St.
Princeton, NJ 08540
Phone: 609-921-9427
www.​trinityprinceton.​org
(Meets Tuesdays, 7:30–9:30 p.m.)
Mercer County Community College
Career Services
Student Center, Room 229
1200 Old Trenton Rd.
West Windsor, NJ 08550
Phone: 609-570-3399
Fax: 609-570-3880
Contact: Gail C. La France,
Career Counselor
www.​mccc.​edu/​careerservices
New York
Bernstein, Alan B., LCSW, PC
122 E. 82nd St.
New York, NY 10028
Phone: 212-288-4881
www.​loveworkbalance.​com
www.​yourretirementyourway.​com
*CareerQuest
c/o TRS, Inc., Professional Ste.
40 Exchange Place, 3rd Fl.
New York, NY 10005
Phone: 908-377-9015
Contact: Don Sutaria, MS, IE (Prof.), PE,
Founder, President, and Life-Work Coach
Email: don@careerquestcentral.​com
www.​careerquestcentral.​com
Careers in Transition, LLC
Professional Career Services
and Counseling
11 Computer Dr. W., #112
Albany, NY 12205
Phone: 518-366-8451
Contact: Dr. Tom Denham, MCC,
Founder and Career Counselor
Email: careersintransition@yahoo.​com
www.​CareersIntransitionLLC.​com
*Greene, Kera, MEd, DTM
Career Counselor/Workshop Leader/Lecturer
200 E. 24th St., #1008
New York, NY 10001
Cell: 917-496-1804
Email: KeraGr@gmail.​com
*Judith Gerberg Associates
1745 Broadway 17th Fl., Ste. 1744
New York, NY 10019
Phone: 212-315-2322
Email: judith@gerberg.​com
www.​gerberg.​com
Optima Careers
575 Madison Ave., 10th Fl.
New York, NY 10022
Contact: Marianne Ruggiero, President and Founder
Email: mcruggiero@optimacareers.​com
www.​optimacareers.​com
Orange County Community College
Office of Career and Internship Services
115 South St.
Middletown, NY 10940
Phone: 845-341-4444
Contact: Petra Wege-Beers, Director
Email: petra.​wegebeers@sunyorange.​edu
www.​sunyorange.​edu/​careers
Personnel Sciences Center
140 Briarcliff Rd.
Westbury, NY 11590
Phone: 516-338-5340
Fax: 516-338-5341
Contact: Jeffrey A. Goldberg, PhD, President, Licensed Psychologist
Email: jag_psc@juno.​com
(Services also provided in Manhattan.)
The Prager-Bernstein Group
122 E. 42nd St., Ste. 1700
New York, NY 10168
Phone: 212-697-0645
Contact: Leslie B. Prager, MA, CMP, Senior Partner/Career Counselor
Email: Leslie-pbg@msn.​com
www.​prager-bernsteingroup.​com
(Specializes in career changes and job changes for mid-career
professionals, recent college graduates, and pre-retirement counseling.)
North Carolina
Career Focus Workshops
8301 Brittains Field Rd.
Oak Ridge, NC 27310
Phone: 336-509-5606
Contact: Glenn Wise
Email: gwise001@triad.​rr.​com
www.​careerfocussolutions.​com
*Crossroads Career Network
PO Box 49664
Charlotte, NC 28277
Phone: 800-941-3566
www.​CrossroadsCareer.​org
(Nonprofit Christian network of member churches equipped to help people
find jobs, careers, calling.)
Joyce Richman & Associates, Ltd.
2911 Shady Lawn Dr.
Greensboro, NC 27408
Phone: 336-288-1799
Email: joyce@joycerichman.​com
www.​joycerichman.​com
Ohio
Cuyahoga County Public Library
The Career Center
5225 Library Ln.
Maple Heights, OH 44137-1291
Phone: 216-475-2225
Email: beaston@cuyahogalibrary.​org
www.​cuyahogalibrary.​org
New Career
328 Race St.
Dover, OH 44622
Phone: 330-364-5557
Contact: Marshall J. Karp, MA, NCC, LPC, Career Counselor
(Author of the free iPhone app, Job Search Power Meter.)
Oklahoma
Career Development Partners, Inc.
4137 S. Harvard Ave., Ste. A
Tulsa, OK 74135
Phone: 918-293-0500
Toll-free: 866-466-1162
Fax: 918-293-0503
Email: Nancy@cdpartnersinc.​com
www.​cdpartnersinc.​com
Oregon
Careerful Counseling Services
12555 SW First St.
Beaverton, OR 97005
Phone: 503-997-9506
Contact: Andrea Killion, MS, NCC, MCC,
Career Counselor
Email: info@careerful.​com
www.​careerful.​com
*Exceptional Living Coach, LLC
840 Ascot Dr.
Eugene, OR 97401
Phone: 541-484-6785
Contact: Lisa R. Anderson, MA, NCC, GCDF
Email: lisa@ExceptionalLivingCoach.​com
www.​ExceptionalLivingCoach.​com
(Speaks English and Spanish.)
Pennsylvania
*Bartholomew, Uda
Vocational Transformations/Vocational Liberation Workshops
Center City Philadelphia, PA 19103
Phone: 215-618-1572
Contact: Uda Bartholomew, Lead Facilitator
Email: VocTransVocLib@gmail.​com
Delaware Valley Family Business Center
340 N. Main St.
Telford, PA 18969
Phone: 215-723-8413, ext. 204
Contact: Henry D. Landes, Consultant
Email: henry@dvfbc.​com
www.​dvfbc.​com
*Hannafin, Christine, PhD
Personal and Career Counseling
419 North Franklin St.
West Chester, PA 19380
Phone: 610-431-0588
Email: christinehannafin@gmail.​com
www.​christinehannafin.​com
Haynes, Lathe, PhD
401 Shady Ave., Ste. C107
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Phone: 412-361-6336
Kessler, Jane E., MA
Licensed Psychologist
252 W. Swamp Rd., Ste. 56
Doylestown, PA 18901
Phone: 215-348-8212, ext. 1
Fax: 215-348-0329
Email: jane@kesslerandclark.​com
Thomas Career Counseling
221 North Olive St.
Media, PA 19063
Phone: 610-937-5632
Contact: Mindy Thomas
Email: mindy@thomascareerconsulting.​com
http://thomascareerconsulting.​com/​career-counseling.​html
William D. Morgan and Associates
Career Counseling & Coaching Services
63 Chestnut Rd., Ste. 3
Paoli, PA 19301
Phone: 610-644-8182
Email: info@Counseling4Careers.​com
www.​Counseling4Careers.​com
South Carolina
Crystal-Barkley Corp.
(formerly the John C. Crystal Center)
293 E. Bay St.
Charleston, SC 29401
Phone: 800-333-9003
Fax: 800-560-5333
Contact: Nella G. Barkley, President
Email: crystalbarkley@careerlife.​com
www.​careerlife.​com
(John Crystal was Dick Bolles’s original mentor and coteacher for many
years. He was, in fact, the source of many of the ideas in the original 1970
edition of Parachute. But he died in 1988, and so, Nella, his business partner
for many years, now continues his work throughout the U.S., U.K., and the
Netherlands.)
White Ridgely Associates, Success Management
26 River Bend Dr.
Okatie, SC 29909
Phone: 443-829-9014
Contact: Daisy Nelson White, PhD
Email: Daisy@whiteridgely.​com
www.​WhiteRidgely.​com
Tennessee
Keeping the People, Inc.
181 Navy Cir.
Mount Juliet, TN 37122
Phone: 913-620-4645
Contact: Leigh Branham
Email: LB@keepingthepeople.​com
www.​keepingthepeople.​com
Texas
*Civitelli, Janet, PhD, MCC
6705 W. Highway 290 #502-102
Austin, TX 78735
Phone: 512-646-1072
Email: janet@vocationvillage.​com
www.​vocationvillage.​com
Quereau, Jeanne, MA, LPC, CPC
Life/Career Coach & Psychotherapist
9500 Jollyville Rd., #121
Austin, TX 78759
Phone: 512-342-9552
Email: jeanneq19@gmail.​com
https://www.​linkedin.​com/​in/​jeannequereaucareerlifecoach
Shell Mendelson Work-Life Coaching Parachute Specialist
New Braunfels, TX
Nationwide
Phone: 830-237-2735
Contact: Shell Mendelson, MS
Email: shell.​mendelson@gmail.​com
www.​shellmendelson.​com
Utah
Lue, Keith
PO Box 971482
Orem, UT 84097-1482
Phone: 801-885-1389
Email: keithlue@keydiscovery.​com
www.​keydiscovery.​com
Vermont
Career Networks, Inc.
1372 Old Stage Rd.
Williston, VT 05495
Phone: 802-373-7789
Contact: Markey Read
Email: markey@careernetworksvt.​com
www.​careernetworksvt.​com
Preis, Roger J.
RPE Career Dynamics
Shelburne, VT 05482
Phone: 802-985-3775
Email: rjpreis@rpecareers.​com
www.​rpecareers.​com
Virginia
Beyond Employment
5868 Mapledale Plaza, Ste. 139
Woodbridge, VA 22193
Phone: 571-969-3439
Contact: Terri Shepler
Email: Info@BeyondEmployment.​com
The BrownMiller Group
5318 Patterson Ave., Ste. D
Richmond, VA 23226
Phone: 804-288-2157
Contact: Bonnie Miller
Email: brownmillergroup@gmail.​com
www.​BrownMiller.​com
McCarthy & Company
Executive Coaching, Career Transition Management
4201 S. 32nd Rd.
Arlington, VA 22206
Phone: 703-671-4300
Contact: Peter McCarthy, President
Email: mccarthy@careertran.​com
www.​careertran.​com
*Raymond, John and Janet
Career Counseling, faith based
129 Aark St., NE, Ste. C
Vienna, VA 22180
Phone: 703-999-5568
The Women’s Center
127 Park St. NE
Vienna, VA 22180
Phone: 703-281-2657
Email: twc@thewomenscenter.​org
(Subject line should read, “Attention: Lauren Kellar”)
www.​thewomenscenter.​org
Washington State
Bridgeway Career Development
1611 116th Avenue NE, Ste. 219
Bellevue, WA 98004
Phone: 877-250-2103
Contact: Carolyn Kessler or Maria Escobar-Bordyn, Partners
Email: services@bridgewaycareer.​com
www.​bridgewaycareer.​com
Career Management Institute
8404 27th St. W.
University Place, WA 98466
Phone: 253-565-8818
Contact: Ruthann Reim McCaffree, MA, NCC, LMHC, CPC
Email: careermi@nwrain.​com
www.​CareerMI.​com
Centerpoint Institute for Life and Career Renewal
4000 NE 41st St., Bldg. D West, Ste. 2
Seattle, WA 98105-5428
Phone: 206-686-LIFE (5433)
Contact: Leah Krieger
www.​centerpointseattle.​org
Pivotal Choices, Inc.
PO Box 3290
Vancouver, WA 98668
Phone: 970-749-9454
Contact: Mary Jane Ward, MEd, NCC, NCCC
Email: mjw@pivotalchoices.​com
www.​pivotalchoices.​com
West Virginia
Ticich, Frank E., MS, CRC, CVE
Career Consultant
153 Tartan Dr.
Follansbee, WV 26037
Phone: 304-748-1772
Email: frankticich@comcast.​net
Wisconsin
*Career Momentum, Inc.
49 Kessel Court, Ste. 103
Madison, WI 53711
Phone: 608-274-2430
Contact: Cory Erickson
Email: cory@careermomentum.​com
www.​CareerMomentum.​com
Guarneri Associates
3297 N. Lake George Rd.
Rhinelander, WI 54501
Phone: 715-362-9120
Contact: Susan Guarneri, NCCC, NCC, MRW, CERW, CPBS, CSBA,
COIMS, CCMC, G3 Coach
Email: Susan@AssessmentGoddess.​com
Wyoming
University of Wyoming
The Center for Advising and Career Services
1000 E. University Ave., Dept. 3195
Laramie, WY 82071-3195
Phone: 307-766-2398
Email: uwcacs@uwyo.​edu
www.​uwyo.​edu/​cacs
CANADA
British Columbia
Curtis, Susan, MEd, RCC, CEAP
Vancouver, BC
Phone: 604-228-9618
Email: susancurtis@telus.​net
Luketic, Helen, CPHR, CCDP
Career Coach
Peaked Interest Career Development
Vancouver, BC
Phone: 604-563-0571
Email: helen@peakedinterestcareers.​ca
www.​peakedinterestcareers.​ca
Ontario
*Careers by Design
Career Counseling and Life Coaching
80 Harrison Garden Blvd.
Toronto, ON, M2N 7E3
Phone: 416-519-8408
Toll Free: 1-800-977-6284
Contact: (Ms.) Shirin Khamisa, B.A., Hons., B. Ed., Founder and Practice
leader
Email: shirin@careersbydesign.​ca
www.​careersbydesign.​ca
(Distance-counseling available globally via Skype.)
Career Strategy Counselling
2 Briarhill Pl.
London, ON N5Y 1P7
Phone: 519-455-4609
Contact: Ruth Clarke, BA
Email: rclarke4609@rogers.​com
donnerwheeler
1 Belvedere Ct., Ste. 1207
Brampton, ON L6V 4M6
Phone: 905-450-1086
Contact: Mary M. Wheeler, RN, MEd, PCC
Email: info@donnerwheeler.​com
www.​donnerwheeler.​com
Georgian Career Quest
Barrie, Ontario
Phone: 705-717-9307
Contact: Kathy Rupnow, BA
Email: krcareer@hotmail.​com
Human Achievement Associates
22 Cottonwood Crescent
London, ON N6G 2Y8
Phone: 519-657-3000 or 226-926-5932
Contact: Mr. Kerry A. Hill
Email: kerryahill@rogers.​com
Puttock, Judith, BBA, CHRP
Career Management Consultant
The Puttock Group
913 Southwind Ct.
Newmarket, ON L3Y 6J1
Phone: 905-717-1738
Email: j.puttock@rogers.​com
YMCA Career Planning & Development
2200 Yonge St.
Toronto, ON M4S 2B8
Phone: 416-928-3362
Contact: Mr. Franz Schmidt
Email: franz.​schmidt@ymcagta.​org
www.​ymcagta.​org
Quebec
Agence Ometz
Employment, Family, and Immigration Services
1 Cummings Square
Montreal, QC H3W 1M6
Phone: 514-342-0000
Fax: 514-342-2371
Contact: Howard Berger or Gail Small,
Co–Executive Directors
Email: info@ometz.​ca
www.​ometz.​ca
(Uses both French and English versions of Parachute.)
La Passerelle Employment & Career Transition Centre
1255 Phillips Square, Ste. 903
Montreal, QC H3B 3G1
Phone: 514-866-5982
Contact: Leslie (Laszlo) Acs, Executive Director
Email: info@lapasserelle.​ca
www.​lapasserelle.​ca
New Career Options
80 Coolbreeze (Pointe Claire)
Montreal, QC H9R 3S7
Phone: 514-816-2803
Contact: Don Smith
Email: DonSmithnco@bell.​net
OVERSEAS
Australia
Career Action Centre
5 Bronte Ave.
Burwood, Victoria 3125
Phone: 03 9808 5500
Cell: 0403 136 260
Contact: Jackie Rothberg
Email: jackie@careeractioncentre.​com.​au
www.​careeractioncentre.​com.​au
du Prie, Grace, ACA, PCDAA
Career and Personal Development Practitioner
PO Box 736
Ipswich, QLD 4305
Phone: 07 3812 3807
Cell: 0438 760 735
Imogen Wareing & Associates
32 Grove St.
Earlwood, NSW 2206
Phone: 61 2 9787 2748
Fax: 612 9787 3185
Cell: 0407 477 225
Contact: Imogen Wareing
Email: iwareing@growconnect.​com.​au
www.​growconnect.​com.​au
Life by Design
PO Box 50
Newport Beach, NSW 2106
Phone: 61 2 9979 4949
Contact: Ian Hutchinson,
Life and Work Engagement Strategist
Email: info@lifebydesign.​com.​au
www.​lifebydesign.​com.​au
Milligan, Narelle
Career Consultant (regional NSW)
Phone: 2 6584 3271
Cell: 0411 236 124
Email: nmilligan2000@yahoo.​com.​au
Taccori, John, EdD
Career Counsellor
Blue Mountains, NSW 2777
Phone: 04 0093 8574
www.​careersdoctor.​net
Brazil
*Mendonça, Adriana
Rua João da Cruz e Sousa, 77
Jardim Chapadão–Campinas–SP
13070-116
Phone: 55 19 3241-9930
Fax: 55 11 98339-9776
Email: adriana.​italia@gmail.​com
France
Chavigny, Catherine
11 bis, rue Huyghens
75014 Paris
Phone: (33) 6 30 51 40 56
Email: catherine.​chavigny@me.​com
Germany
Buddensieg, Marc
Franz-Naues-Str. 4a
30453 Hannover
Phone: 49 0 163 624 2639
Email: buddensieg@gmx.​de
www.​lwp-institut-hannover.​de
Leitner, Madeleine, Dipl. Psych.
Ohmstrasse 8
80802 Munchen
Phone: 089 33079444
Email: ML@Karriere-Management.​de
www.​Karriere-Management.​de
(Madeleine is one of the best Parachute counselors in Europe. She
translated Parachute into German.)
Webb, John Carl
Martin-Luther-Str. 45
10779 Berlin
Phone: +49 (0) 178 786 8891
Email: John.​Webb@lifeworkplanning.​de
www.​lifeworkplanning.​de
(Universities offering Life/Work Planning courses designed by John, and
based on Parachute, are located in Berlin, Bochum, Bremen, Freiburg,
Hannover, Konstanz, Leipzig, and Potsdam. John was on staff at my
international Two-Week Workshops; he is a master of the Parachute process
and one of the most faithful teachers of this book in the world.)
Hong Kong
Chan, Ella P. O., EdD, GCDF, NBCC, USA
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Inter-University Hall,
Shatin, Hong Kong
Phone: 852-22090209, 852-27392797, or 852-97474716
Email: pochan@cuhk.​edu.​hk or gcdf@cuhk.​edu
Ireland
Brian McIvor & Associates
Newgrange Mall, Unit 4B
Slane, C15F7YN County Meath
Phone: 353 41 988 4035
Email: brianmcivor@gmail.​com
www.​brianmcivor.​com
(Brian was on staff with me for five years, when I used to do Two-Week
Workshops.)
Israel
Mendel, Lori
PO Box 148
Caesarea, Israel 38900
Phone: 972 3 524 1068
Cell: 972 54 814 4442
Email: bizcom@bezeqint.​net
Transitions & Resources, Ltd.
Tzipornit, 6/3
Modiin, 71808 Israel
Phone: 08 926 6102
U.S. phone line in Israel until 4 p.m. EST: 516-216-4457
Fax: 08 926 6103
Phone: 050-573-9496
Contact: Judy Feierstein, CEO
Email: info@maavarim.​biz
www.​maavarim.​biz
The Netherlands
Crystal-Barkley Corp.
Phone: 800-333-9003
Email: crystalbarkley@careerlife.​com
www.​careerlife.​com
Pluym Career Consultants
Career Executive & Expats Coaching Services
Boshoekerweg 16
NL/8167 LS EPE/OENE
Contact: Johan Veeninga,
Senior Consultant
Email: johan.​veeninga@gmail.​com or info@careerconsultants.​nl
www.​careerconsultants.​nl
New Zealand
Career Lifestyle
Auckland CBD
Contact: Paula Stenberg
www.​cvstyle.​co.​nz
*CV.CO.NZ (NZ) Ltd.
373 Masters Rd.
Auckland 2682
Toll-Free: 0800 282 669
Phone: 09 235 8484
Contact: Tom O’Neil
Email: tom@cv.​co.​nz
www.​cv.​co.​nz
Tui Needham Strategic Career Services
St. Andrews, Hamilton
Phone: 07849 0909
Cell: 027 340 6443
Email: tui@tuineedham.​co.​nz
www.​tuineedham.​co.​nz
Poland
JC Coaching Justyna Ciecwierz
Tarniny 5a
05-515 Nowa Iwiczna
Cell: 48 600 327 163
Contact: Justyna Ciecwierz
Career Coaching, Work/Life Planning
Email: justyna.​ciecwierz@jc-coaching.​pl
www.​zmianazawodowa.​pl
Singapore
Transformation Technologies
122 Thomson Green
574986 Singapore
Phone: 65 98197858
Contact: Anthony Tan, Director
Email: anthonyt@singnet.​com.​sg
South Africa
Career Warriors
8 Park Central Building
21 New St.
Durbanville, Cape Town 7550
or PO Box 1311
Durbanville 7551
Phone: 27 0 21 9755573
Fax: 27 0 88 0 21 9755573
Contact: Andrew Bramley
Email: andrew@careerwarriors.​co.​za
www.​careerwarriors.​co.​za
South Korea
Byung Ju Cho, PhD
Professor Emeritus of Business and Career
Ajou University
Suwon
Phone: 82 31 219 2709
Cell: 82 10 9084 6236
Email: chobju@ajou.​ac.​kr
(Byung Ju Cho is the translator of the 2013 Korean version of Parachute.)
Spain
Analisi-Nic
Via Augusta, 120
Principal 1
08006 Barcelona
Phone: 34 932119503
Fax: 34 932172128
Contact: José Arnó
Email: analisi@arrakis.​es
Switzerland
Porot & Partenaire
Rue de la Terrassière 8
1207 Genève-Suisse
Phone: +41 0 22 700 82 10
Fax: +41 0 22 700 82 14
Contact: Daniel Porot, Founder
Email: daniel@porot.​com
www.​porot.​com
(Daniel is the premiere career expert in Europe; for the twenty years that I
did two-week workshops every August, Daniel was always co-leader with
me each summer. His expertise is dazzling.)
Vollenweider-Perspektiven
Career and Transition Coaching & Consulting
Renggerstrasse 3, CH-8038 Zurich
Phone: +41 0 78 626 11 58
Contact: Dr. Peter A. Vollenweider
Email: pv@vollenweider-perspektiven.​ch
www.​vollenweider-perspektiven.​ch
United Kingdom
Can Do It Now
Contact: Janie Wilson
UK: London, Surrey, and Sussex;
France: Languedoc
Phone: +44 (0)7968 027344
Email: janie@candoitnow.​co.​uk
or
Contact: Alix Nadelman
London, Cambridge, and East Counties
Phone: +44 (0)7977 930223
Email: alix@candoitnow.​co.​uk
www.​candoitnow.​co.​uk
Career Dovetail
4 E. Hill Court
Oxted, Surrey RH8 9AD
and Hub Working Centre
5 Wormwood St.
London EC2M 1RW
Contact: Duncan Bolam, Dip. CG,
Director, Career Coach, and Founder
Email: duncanbolam@careerdovetail.​co.​uk
www.​careerdovetail.​co.​uk
Carey Adams Careers Advice
Personal careers advice and guidance, throughout the UK
Abby House, Abbey Green
Chester, Cheshire CH1 2JH
Phone: 01244 403422
Contact: Carey Adams, Principal, Career Coach
Email: carey@careyadams.​co.​uk
www.​careyadams.​co.​uk
Crystal-Barkley Corp.
Phone: 800-333-9003
Email: crystalbarkley@careerlife.​com
www.​careerlife.​com
Hawkins, Dr. Peter
Mt. Pleasant
Liverpool, L3 5TF
Phone: 0044 0 151 709-1760
Fax: 0044 0 151 709-1576
Email: p.​Hawkins@gieu.​co.​uk
Hughes, Sherridan
Career Consultant
110 Pretoria Rd.
London SW16 6RN
Phone: 020 8769 5737
Email: sherridan@sherridanhughes.​com
www.​career-consultants.​net
Jerome, Nick
Independent Coach and Facilitator
Phone: (+44) 7905 006532
Email: nick.​jerome@gmail.​com
(Speaks English and French.)
John Lees Associates
Career Coaches across the UK
Phone: 0129 755 1351
Contact: John Lees
Email: info@johnleescareers.​com
www.​johnleescareers.​com
*RealVocation
Bath Spa & Bristol
Phone: 0044 0 7963 093 729
Contact: Marietta Birkholtz RPP BScHons(OT) RYT500, Director and
Vocational Facilitator
Email: exploringvocation@gmail.​com
www.​realvocation.​com
APPENDIX E
Recent Foreign Editions of
What Color Is Your
Parachute?
Arabic (Jarir Bookstore, 2016)
Chinese, Complex (Yuan-Liou Publishing Co., Ltd., 2017)
Chinese, Simplified (Beijing Xiron Books Co., Ltd., 2014)
Dutch (Uitgeverij Nieuwezijds, 2017)
German (Campus Verlag GmbH, 2012)
Hungarian (HVG Kiado, 2012)
Japanese (Tatsumi Publishing, 2012)
Korean (The Korea Economic Daily & Business Publications,
Inc., 2013)
Polish (Studio Emka Klara Molnar, 2016)
Romanian (S.C. Publica Company SRL, 2013)
Spanish (Gestion 2000, 2013)
Spanish in the U.S. (Penguin Random House Grupo Editorial,
S.A.U, 2012)
Turkish (Sola Kocluk Egitim Danismanlik Hizmetleri Anonim
Sirket, 2017)
Vietnamese (TGM Corporation, 2017)
THE FINAL WORD:
Notes from the Author for This
Edition
I am the sole researcher, writer, and layout artist of this book—with some
help, at the end, from my friends over at Ten Speed Press. And I’ve been
doing this for 47 years in a row, which I’m told is some kind of publishing
record. I’m often asked, Do you ever get tired of all this? Well, it would
have been nice to retire, 25 years ago, but that is just not my nature. I love
helping people, and every year I learn new things that I think will help
people. So, I have to keep writing. This year I’m all up on the
unemployment marketplace, robotics, IoT (the Internet of Things), the
Economy, and a dozen other subjects. I write for LinkedIn (I’m one of
their “Influencers”), and I write for AARP’s Life Reimagined Project, and
for Australia’s kikki.k project. And I love it.
But the focus of this book is not on me. It’s on You. You are the heroes
and heroines of this book. You are the ones who struggle to make life
work, who tell me of your victories (and defeats). You are the inventive
ones. You are the ones who tell me solutions to job-hunting or career-
changing problems that puzzle me.
I know that this book demands a lot of every reader, just as life demands
a lot of all of us, and I am amazed at how many of the over ten million
people who have bought this book (in one of its annual editions) are
willing to sit down and do the hard work of the Self-Inventory in chapters
7 and 8.
It takes more than one person to create a book. My particular thanks this
year go to Lisa Westmoreland and Marci M. Bolles. Lisa is the executive
editor at Ten Speed Press and has helped greatly with the form and
updating of this 2018 edition. And Marci has helped greatly with the
typing of this manuscript.
My gratitude also to George Young for his help with updating my
veterans handout.
This is a book about jobs, but more importantly it is a book about life
and hope. I have learned, over my 90 years on Earth, that the secret of
living is not to set as our goal a happy life, nor even a successful life (as
the world measures “success”), but a victorious life, meeting the obstacles
and challenges that life naturally throws into our path, and by grit,
determination, and Grace, overcoming them all. And lucky those who find
love on their journey. I quote from what a woman dying of ALS once said:
“Throughout all this I have learned that the only thing that matters is love.
When you live in love, everything else just falls into place.” May you find
such love in your life. I have, with my wonderful wife, Marci.
But there are others, too. Were it not for this book, and social media
sites such as Facebook, I would never have met you, never have known so
many valiant and courageous souls, as you have faced and faced down so
many difficulties that might have defeated me. I don’t just appreciate my
readers; I admire my readers. You are such an inspiration to me.
Particularly in overcoming the health challenges I have faced this past
year.
I am a grateful man, and this is the place, each year, where I recite my
litany of love and gratitude, for all the people in my life, past and present.
First of all, I am enchanted by every moment of my life that I get to
spend with such a wondrous woman as my wife, Marci. I treasure her love,
brains, wit, and caring. For example, back in 2014 I badly injured my
back, while vacationing (and tossing heavy luggage around) over in Paris
and the U.K. Always in excellent health (until then), my recovery has been
slow but steady. Marci (coincidentally a licensed nurse) has created the
most loving, beautiful healing environment all around me, for which I
shall ever be grateful. I’m grateful, too, for Marci’s grown children from a
previous marriage, Janice (Marcel) and Adlai (Aimee), and their kids,
Logan and Aiden. They are wonderful to me.
I am grateful beyond measure for the family that brought me into this
world. I had a really wonderful Mom and Dad, and I loved the brother I
grew up with (the famous reporter/martyr Don Bolles), and my one sister
(Ann). They’re all gone now; I’m the only survivor from those
generations. In fact I am the patriarch of the whole Bolles clan, now.
I am so grateful for my children—Stephen, Mark, Gary, and Sharon—
and my grandchildren—all ten of them. We lost Mark in 2012 to a massive
cerebral hemorrhage, at age fifty-eight. I wept over that, a lot, and still
miss him greatly. He lived with me for six out of the last twelve years of
his life, and was the author of our book Job-Hunting Online. He was a
treasure.
I am so grateful for my three remaining children and their families, plus
their most-loving mother, my first wife, Jan, who shares in all our family
gatherings.
As for friends—what would any of us do without our friends?—I want
to express my gratitude for my dearest friend (besides Marci), Daniel
Porot of Geneva, Switzerland—we taught together for two weeks every
summer, for nineteen years; also for Dave Swanson, plus my international
friends, Brian McIvor of Ireland; John Webb and Madeleine Leitner of
Germany; Yves Lermusi, of Checkster fame, who came from Belgium;
Pete Hawkins of Liverpool, England; Debra Angel MacDougall of
Scotland; Byung Ju Cho of South Korea; Tom O’Neil of New Zealand;
and, in this country, the late Howard Figler, beloved friend and coauthor of
our manual for career counselors; Marty Nemko; Joel Garfinkle; Dick
Knowdell; Rich Feller; Dick Gaither; Warren Farrell; Chuck Young;
Susan Joyce; and the folks over at Ten Speed Press in Berkeley,
California, now an imprint of the Crown Publishing Group of Penguin
Random House, plus Crown’s head, Maya Mavjee, who has been more
than kind to me.
Of course, with the passage of time, friends do die. I think it is
important to remember them, with deep gratitude for their lives well-lived.
I still think of Howard Figler, whom we lost in February 2015. He was the
coauthor with me of The Career Counselor’s Handbook (Second Edition,
2007). He and I had years of fun writing together. We also lost Judi
Grutter, expert on testing and assessments. She died in December of 2014.
Prior to that, we lost Jay Conrad Levinson in October of 2013. He was the
popular author of many books on Guerrilla Marketing. And prior to him,
we lost my longtime publisher, Phil Wood, in December, 2010. He was my
publisher from the day I first wrote Parachute; he was a dear man, and I
owe him more than I can ever say for helping Parachute find its audience,
and for letting me have great control over the annual editions. Parachute
would never have sold over ten million copies, as it has, if it were not for
him.
I much appreciate the staff over at Ten Speed, whom I know best there:
that includes Aaron Wehner (Publisher), Lisa Westmoreland (Executive
Editor and my best editor ever), Natalie Mulford, Mari Gill, Chris Barnes,
and George Young. And again, my especial thanks to my readers for
buying my books, trusting my counsel, and following your dream.
In concluding my litany of gratitude, I must be sure to include our
Creator. It is not fashionable these days to talk about one’s faith, but I’m
going to do it anyway. I am very quiet about my faith; it’s just…there. But
I want to quietly acknowledge that it is the source of whatever grace,
wisdom, or compassion I have ever found, or shared with others. I have all
my life been a committed Christian, a devoted follower of Jesus Christ,
and an Episcopalian/Anglican. (I was an ordained priest in that Church for
fifty years.) I thank my Creator every night for such a life, such a
wonderful mission, as He has given me: to help millions of people make
their lives really count for something, as we all go spinning through space,
here on Spaceship Earth.
—Dick Bolles
February 1, 2017
A Grammar and Language Note
I want to explain four points of grammar, in this book of mine: pronouns,
commas, italics, and spelling. My unorthodox use of them invariably
offends unemployed English teachers so much that instead of finishing the
book, they immediately write to apply for a job as my editor.
To save us unnecessary correspondence, let me explain. Throughout this
book, I often use the apparently plural pronouns “they,” “them,” and
“their” after singular antecedents—such as, “You must approach someone
for a job and tell them what you can do.” This sounds strange and even
wrong to those who know English well. To be sure, we all know there is
another pronoun—“you”—that may be either singular or plural, but few of
us realize that the pronouns “they,” “them,” and “their” were also once
treated as both plural and singular in the English language. This changed,
at a time in English history when agreement in number became more
important than agreement as to sexual gender. Today, however, our
priorities have shifted once again. Now, the distinguishing of sexual
gender is considered by many to be more important than agreement in
number.
The common artifices used for this new priority, such as “s/he,” or “he
and she,” are—to my mind—tortured and inelegant. Casey Miller and Kate
Swift, in their classic, The Handbook of Nonsexist Writing, agree, and
argue that it is time to bring back the earlier usage of “they,” “them,” and
“their” as both singular and plural—just as “you” is/are. They further
argue that this return to the earlier historical usage has already become
quite common out on the street—witness a typical sign by the ocean that
reads, “Anyone using this beach after 5 p.m. does so at their own risk.” I
have followed Casey and Kate’s wise recommendations in all of this.
As for my commas, they are deliberately used according to my own
rules—rather than according to the rules of historic grammar (which I did
learn—I hastily add, to reassure my old Harvard professors, who despaired
of me weekly, during English class). In spite of those rules, I follow my
own, which are: to write conversationally, and put in a comma wherever I
would normally stop for a breath, were I speaking the same line.
The same conversational rule applies to my use of italics. This book is a
conversation: I’m sitting down with you to tell you what I know.
Conversations have rhythms. You emphasize a word here, you speak a
word softly, there. There are pauses. The speed of one sentence sometimes
changes from the previous. All of this is difficult to reproduce in print, if
all the text looks equal. So I use italics, I use dashes, I use parentheses, I
use color, etc. to reproduce in print—as much as I can—the rhythms of
natural speech.
Finally, I guess some of my spelling (and capitalization) is weird. (You
say “weird”; I say “playful.”) I sometimes like writing it as “email,” for
example, but other times I feel like writing it as “e-mail.” Fortunately,
since this is my own book, I get to play by my own peculiar inclinations
and playfulness; I’m just grateful that ten million readers have gone along.
Nothing delights a child (at heart) more, than being found at play.
—Dick Bolles
P.S. Over the last forty years a few critics have complained that this book
is too complicated in its vocabulary and grammar for anyone except a
college graduate. Two readers, however, have written me with a different
view.
The first one, from England, said there is an index that analyzes a book
to tell you what grade in school you must have finished, in order to be able
to understand it. My book’s index, he said, turned out to be 6.1, which
means you need only have finished sixth grade in a U.S. school in order to
understand it.
Here in the U.S., a college instructor came up with a similar finding. He
phoned me to tell me that my book was rejected by the authorities as a
proposed text for the college course he was teaching, because (they said)
the book’s language/grammar was not up to college level. “What level was
it?” I asked. “Well,” he replied, “when they analyzed it, it turned out to be
written on an eighth grade level.”
Sixth or eighth grade—that seems just about right to me. Why make
job-hunting complicated, when it can be expressed so simply even a child
could understand it?
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
DICK BOLLES—more formally known as Richard Nelson Bolles—led
the career development field for more than four decades. He was featured
in Time, the New York Times, BusinessWeek, Fortune, Money, Fast
Company, the Economist, and Publishers Weekly, and appeared on the
Today show, CNN, CBS, ABC, PBS, and other popular media. Bolles
keynoted hundreds of conferences, including the American Society for
Training & Development and the National Career Development
Association. A member of Mensa, the Society for Human Resource
Management, and the National Resume Writers Association, he was
considered “the most recognized job-hunting authority on the planet” (San
Francisco Chronicle) and “America’s top career expert” (AARP).
Time magazine chose What Color Is Your Parachute? as one of the
hundred best nonfiction books written since 1923. The Library of
Congress chose it as one of twenty-five books down through history that
have shaped people’s lives. It appeared on the New York Times best seller
list for more than five years. The book has sold ten million copies, to date,
and has been translated into twenty languages and used in twenty-six
countries.
Bolles was trained in chemical engineering at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, and earned a bachelor’s degree cum laude in physics from
Harvard University, a master’s in sacred theology from General
Theological (Episcopal) Seminary in New York City, and three honorary
doctorates. He recently passed away in March 2017 at age ninety after a
lifetime of service to job-hunters across the world.
Email address: dickbolles40@gmail.​com
Website: www.​jobhuntersbible.​com
Online tools: www.​eparachute.​com
UPDATE 2019
    To:  PARACHUTE
     1770 Post St. #182
     San Francisco, CA 94115
I think that the information in this 2018 edition needs to be changed, in
your 2019 revision, regarding:
Or, the following resource should be added:
Or, I cannot find the following resource, listed on page:
Your Name
Address
Please make a copy for your own records.
Please submit this so as to reach us before February 1, 2018.
dickbolles40@gmail.​com
Thank you.
Click here to download a PDF of the Update 2019 Form.
INDEX
A
Access economy
Achievements, documenting
Ads
answering
researching salaries through
Agencies. See Employment agencies; Governmental agencies
Aging
American Job Centers
“A minus B equals C” method
Anger, dealing with
Appearance, importance of
Assessments, vocational. See Tests
Attitudes
toward aging
during interview
toward yourself (self-esteem)
Azrin, Nathan
B
Behavioral Interviewing
Benefits, job
Blogging
Bridge-people
definition of
identifying
importance of
for salary research
Brown, Barbara
Buechner, Fred
Building-block diagram of skills
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Business, creating your own. See also Self-employment
Business Owners’ Idea Café, The
Business Owner’s Toolkit
C
Calling, one’s. See also Mission in life
Career Bliss
CareerBuilder
Career-change/career-choice
cautions about
as fun
Informational Interviewing and
job-market needs and
online resource for
school and
self-inventory and
step-by-step process for, with Flower Exercise
testing and
two-step process for
Career clusters
Career counselors/coaches
choosing
contracts with
degrees held by
dishonest
fees of
free workshops by
groups run by
Mission in life and
operating by Internet or telephone
religious
sampler list of
success rate of
Career Interests Game
CareerOneStop
Career portfolios
Checkster
Classified ads. See Ads
College degrees, failure in getting a job with
Companies. See Employers; Organizations
Competency-based interviewing. See Behavioral Interviewing
Computer skills, acquiring
Considerateness, importance of
Contacts
asking for job-leads from
importance of
with weak ties
See also Bridge-people
Contracts
with career counselors/coaches
with employers
Control, finding something within your
Counseling. See Career counselors/coaches; Spiritual counselors
Cover letters, importance of
Coworkers, preferred
Crystal, John
Curricula vitae (c.v.). See Resumes
D
Data, skills dealing with
Day-laborers
Decision making, tips about
Depression (emotional)
Dewey Color System
Diagrams
A minus B equals C
Building Blocks of Transferable Skills
Combining Three Fields
Cutting the Territory Down
Distasteful Working Conditions (chart)
Energy Drainers vs. Energy Creators (chart)
Favorite Subjects Matrix (sorting box)
Fears Behind Employers’ Questions (chart)
Fisherman’s Net (chart)
Flower Diagram (example)
Flower Diagram (to be filled in)
Geographical Preferences (chart)
Healthy Religion vs. Unhealthy Religion (chart)
List of 246 Skills as Verbs
Model of Bad or Good Career Planning
Parachute Skills Grid
Party Exercise
PIE (Porot)
Preferred Methods for Filling Vacancies (employers’ vs. job-hunters’)
Prioritizing Grid for 10 Items or Less
Sample Resume
Search for a Good Career Counselor (chart)
Setting Your Salary Range
Systematic Breakdown and Building Up to Define a Career
Ten Commandments for Job-Interviews (tablet)
Ten Greatest Mistakes Made in Job-Interviews (tablet)
Three Kinds of Skills (Sidney Fine)
Three Types of Career-Change (heart diagram)
Traditional Approach vs. Parachute Approach (two columns)
Transferable Skills (Sidney Fine’s diagram)
What You Can Do, What You Can’t (chart)
When to Negotiate Salary
Dictionary of Occupational Titles, The (D.O.T.)
Disabilities. See Handicaps
Discrimination in hiring
Distance-counseling
Dreams, pursuing your
Drevno, Mark
E
Education
career-change and
on resume
worthless degrees
See also Learning
Egotism
Email
sending resumes by
sending thank-you notes by
Employees, skills of highly sought
Employers
bad-mouthing previous
contacting interesting
diversity among
fears and concerns of
“foreign country” analogy for
new
preferred methods for filling vacancies vs. job-hunters’
questions likely to be asked by, at interviews
size of
targeting particular
type of employee sought by
See also Organizations; Person-who-has-the-power-to-hire-you
Employment agencies
success rate for
temporary (temp agencies)
Employment interviews. See Hiring-interviews
Energy drainers vs. energy creators
Enthusiasm
importance of
lack of
shyness vs.
eParachute
Executive counseling firms
Ex-offenders
Expenses, estimating
Experience Unlimited Job Clubs
F
Facebook
Faith. See Mission in life; Religious beliefs
Family
asking for job-leads from
self-employment and
Fear
employers’
job-hunters’, of talking with others
Feller, Rich
Fields of interest
50-50 rule during job interviews
Find Your Spot
Fine, Sidney
Fisherman’s Net (chart)
Flower Exercise
blank form
career-change/career-choice and
as complete picture of self
example of filled-in form
finding a name for your
geography (Petal #7)
knowledges (Petal #5)
online resources for
overview of
paper versions of
people (Petal #1)
prioritizing petals of
purpose (Petal #4)
salary (Petal #6)
skills (Petal #3)
workplace (Petal #2)
See also Self-inventory
Foreign editions
Fraud, perpetrated on you
Free Agent Nation
Freelancing. See Self-employment
Friends
asking for job-leads from
career counselors/coaches used by
renewing contact with old
researching organizations through
See also Bridge-people
Fringe benefits at work
G
Gaither, Dick, help for ex-offenders from
Geographical preferences
“Geography petal” on Flower Diagram
Glassdoor
Goals in life. See Purpose in life
God
belief in
reestablishing contact with
Google
as resume
search history on
Governmental agencies
Granovetter, Mark
Gratitude list, making
H
Haldane, Bernard
Handicaps
Happiness and money
Health, employers’ questions about
Healthcare jobs
Hiring-interviews
for already-filled vacancies
asking for feedback after
bad-mouthing previous employers during
bringing evidence of skills to
characteristics of
dating as a metaphor for
employers’ fears during
ending
50-50 rule during
importance of first two minutes of
length of answers during
mistakes made in
obtaining
personal appearance and conduct at
preparing for
questions asked by employer at
questions asked by job-hunter at
researching organization before
role-playing
salary negotiation and
via Skype
ten commandments of
thank-you notes after
time frame of questions during
as two-way conversation
See also Behavioral Interviewing; Person-who-has-the-power-to-hire-
you
Hobbies
Holland, John
Holland Codes
Home businesses
HR (Human Resources), avoiding
Human Metrics Test
I
Income. See Salary
Independent contractors. See also Self-employment
Informational Interviewing
to find out about organizations
job offers during, how to handle
naming your Flower Diagram through
PIE Method and
thank-you notes following
trying on jobs through
value of
Instagram
Interests. See Fields of interest
Internet
access to
career-change and
Flower Exercise on
job-hunting on
posting resumes on
researching on
testing and counseling on
your presence on
See also Email; Social media; Websites
Interviews. See Behavioral Interviewing; Hiring-interviews; Informational
Interviewing; Practice Interviews
Inventory. See Self-inventory
Ireland, Susan
J
Jackson, Ellie
Jackson, Tom
Jails to Jobs
Job-beggar vs. helpful resource
Job-boards
Job clubs
Job-hunting
as art, not science
best and worst approaches to
conservation of energy in
as continual activity
groups
importance of alternatives in
on the Internet
key ideas for
length of
life-changing
recent changes in
reexamining approaches to
“right” vs. “wrong” ways of
social media and
targeting small organizations
tax deductions for
time devoted to
Traditional Approach vs. Parachute Approach
unchanging essence of
unsuccessful
See also Career-change/career-choice
Job-hunt.​org (recommended site)
Job-interviews. See Hiring-interviews
Job-leads
Job-markets
approaching multiple
projections of
See also Unemployment; Vacancies
Job offers
asking for
during informational interviewing
lack of
in writing
Job portfolios
Jobs
creation of
dream
families of
hot
length of
part-time
technology’s impact on
trying on
Jobstar.​org (recommended site)
Jobs with Friends (discontinued)
Job-titles
JOLTS (Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey)
Joyce, Susan
K
Keirsey Temperament Sorter
Keywords
Kirn, Arthur and Marie
Knowledges, favorite
“Knowledges or fields petal” on Flower Diagram
L
Large organizations
definition of
small vs.
Learning
unemployment and
unlearning and
See also Education
Letter of agreement
Level at work
LinkedIn
LiveCareer.​com
Lüscher Color Test
M
Manufacturing jobs
Matson, Ralph
Meditation
Mental patients, former
Miller, Arthur
Mission in life
career counseling and
definition of
first stage
on the Flower Diagram
as intersection
job-hunting and
nine spheres of
second stage
secret of finding
third stage
unlearning and learning
See also Purpose in life
Monster.​com
Mort, Mary Ellen
Mosquitoes metaphor (in a job-interview)
Moving (to another place). See also Geographical preferences
Myers-Briggs Type Indicator
MyPlan.​com
N
Nervous mannerisms during interviews
Networking
importance of
Informational Interviewing and
social media and
See also Bridge-people
Newspaper ads. See Ads
North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes
O
Occupational Outlook Handbook, The
Occupations. See Jobs
Offers. See Job offers
Older job-hunters
O’Neil, Tom
O*Net Online (Occupational Information Network)
Online job-hunting
Organizations
making list of
researching
websites of
See also Large organizations; Small organizations
Overseas jobs
P
Part-time work. See also Temp agencies/temporary work
Party Exercise
Pay. See Salary
People
energy drainers vs. energy creators
favorite to work with
skills dealing with
as sources of job information
as sources of salary information
See also Bridge-people; Family; Friends
People-environments, jobs treated as
“People petal” on Flower Diagram
Personality types
Person-who-has-the-power-to-hire-you
fears and concerns of
interview with
in large vs. small organizations
See also Employers
Philosophy of life. See also Mission in life
Physical environment, effects of
Physical fitness
Pickup work
PIE Method
Pink, Daniel
Pinterest
Plan B, importance of having
Plaxo
Pleasure interviews. See Practice Interviews
Porot, Daniel
Portfolio, approaching employers with your
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
Powerlessness, feelings of
Practice Interviews
Prayer websites
Prejudices, employers’
Prioritizing Grid
Purpose in life
“Purpose in life petal” on Flower Diagram
R
Raises
References
Rejection, dealing with
Religious beliefs
career counseling and
definition of
healthy vs. unhealthy
importance of
persecution on account of
prevalence of
stereotypes about
unemployment and
websites on
See also Mission in life; Spirituality
Research
prior to hiring-interviews
on the Internet
on organizations
on salary
on self-employment
Resource person vs. job-beggar
Resumes
acknowledgment of, by employers
alternatives to
contents of
emailing
employers’ vs. job-hunters’ views of
first impression from
format and style for
good example of
Google as
handicaps and
inaccurate
keywords in
posting online
purpose of
references in
success rate for
targeting particular employers with
tips for writing
Retirement
Rewards, favorite
RIASEC system. See Holland Codes
Robots
Ryle, Beverly
S
Salary
declining trend in
desired
fringe benefits and
happiness and
level and
negotiating
older job-hunters and
raises
ranges
researching
time to discuss
Salary.​com
SalaryExpert.​com
“Salary petal” on Flower Diagram
School. See Education
Search firms
Search history
Self-confidence/self-esteem, importance of
Self-Directed Search (SDS, John Holland)
Self-employment
“A minus B equals C” method
case histories of
creating list of ideas for
evaluating readiness for
family and
home businesses
motivations for
researching
Self-inventory
graphic or picture for
importance of
mental preparation for
prioritizing instrument for
reasons for success of
worksheets for
See also Flower Exercise
Self-management skills
Seven Stories (to identify transferable skills)
Shadow professions
Sharing economy
Shyness
Skills, transferable (functional)
dealing with data (mental)
dealing with people (interpersonal)
dealing with things (physical)
evidence of
identifying
inventory (grid)
levels of
as list of 246 verbs
passion and
prioritizing
sought by employers
traits vs.
“Skills petal” on Flower Diagram
Skype, interviews via
Sleep, importance of
Small Business Administration (SBA)
Small organizations
definition of
job creation at
large vs.
targeting
Smith, Craig
Smoking during hiring-interviews
Social media
editing
sites, popular
See also individual social media websites
Spiritual counselors
Spirituality. See also Religious beliefs
“Strength of weak ties” theory
Strong Inventory
Style. See Traits
Subjects, favorite
Success stories
Suicidal thoughts
Surroundings, effects of
T
Take This Job or Shove It
Tardiness for job-interview appointments
Tattoos
Taxes
Technology, impact of
Telephone
area codes
counseling by
See also Yellow Pages
Temp agencies/temporary work
Temperaments
Ten Commandments for Job-Interviews
Tests
of traits
vocational
Thank-you notes, tremendous importance of
after hiring-interviews
after Informational Interviewing
after Practice Interviewing
“That One Piece of Paper” exercise. See Flower Exercise
Things, skills dealing with
Traditional approach to job-hunting
Traits
Turnover, job-market
Twitter
Types, personality
U
Unemployment
employer prejudice and
feelings during
length of
national statistics on
as opportunity
religious beliefs and
Unions
Uniqueness, identifying your
V
Vacancies
existence of
number of
preferred methods for filling, employers’ vs. job-hunters’
Values, importance of
Veterans
depression and
language and
prejudice and
Videos
Vision, decreased
Vocation. See also Mission in life; Purpose in life
Vocational tests
Volunteer work
W
Want ads. See Ads
Websites
for career information
of organizations
on religious beliefs
on salaries
for self-employment
See also Internet
“Working conditions petal” on Flower Diagram
Working Solo
Y
Yellow Pages
calling employers from
career counselors/coaches in
using, to make list of organizations
YouTube
ADDITIONAL HELPFUL
RESOURCES FROM THE
AUTHOR
ADDITIONAL HELPFUL
RESOURCES FROM THE
AUTHOR
What’s next on
your reading list?
Discover your next
great read!
Get personalized book picks and up-to-date news about this author.
Sign up now.
