Crush It - Gary Vaynerchuk
1
Crush It - Gary Vaynerchuk
Crush It! is an inspiration and a guideline for those who want to make money with their 
passion. With his own life story, the author has demonstrated how people can 
absolutely make a living doing what they love.
This book is suitable for
Those who are working at small companies or starting a business;
Investors who want to pour capital into small companies or start-up ideas;
Entrepreneurs who want to adapt to the era of social media.
The author of this book is
Gary Vaynerchuk, author of numerous best-selling books like The Thank You 
Economy, and entrepreneur, is the creator of Wine Library TV, an all-in-one news 
channel about wine.
Chapter 1. The greatest value the book brings
Nowadays, a lot of people force themselves to do things they don't like just to make 
money. This book will show you how to make a living doing things you normally only do 
in your spare time.
By identifying our true passions and developing our core values   in the right way, we can 
absolutely make money without harming our very nature. In addition, the book also 
shows that, when you join groups of people with the same passion, you will easily 
attract the attention of people around you.
After reading the book, you will also see the harmful effects of always trying to please 
everyone. In addition, Gary proves that you yourself will destroy your company if you try 
to burn the stage.
Most importantly, the book will help you turn your hobbies and daily habits into a money-
making tool.
Chapter 2. You can only succeed if you dare to follow 
your passion and work hard.
Crush It - Gary Vaynerchuk
2
Have you ever let pessimistic thoughts about reality stop you from doing what you love? 
There are so many people like that, they think it's just a pipe dream. However, we 
absolutely can do it, but how?
First, we must identify our true passions, which make you who you are. It could be 
anything in the world: from playing board games to building models, from gardening to 
cooking. Once you've identified a passion, live it by turning them from hobbies to the 
most important ingredient in life: work. In other words, you're not merely "making a 
living," but doing what you love.
You can find inspiration from examples like Oprah Winfrey, the famous hostess, or 
Martha Stewart, the world-famous chef. They are the people who have identified their 
greatest passion (communication and cooking) and devoted themselves to it.
Another important thing is that we must know the balance between passion and family 
affection. This is the source of motivation and effective support to help you turn your 
dreams into reality.
In the end, the key point is hard work. You need to put 100% of your energy into 
pursuing your dream, this is also the key to opening the door to success.
For example, if you love brewing beer and want to make it your main job, the most 
important thing you need to do is work hard. You need to devote all your time to it like 
learning from other seniors, updating new beers or watching videos on brewing 
techniques.
Once you've done all of the above steps one by one, you're ready to "break out"!
Chapter 3. To make money with your passion, you have 
to make yourself your own brand.
Once you've identified your passion and are doing your best to live it, what's the next 
step on the road to success?
It's about finding a way to show the world how great your passion is. The best way to do 
that is to create your own brand: something that will express your passion, while also 
reflecting your own personality. This is also the author's purpose when expressing his 
passion for wine through the Youtube Wine Library TV channel. He displays his 
knowledge of wine according to his own taste and personality, a rather outspoken and 
outspoken personality rather than trying to live up to everyone's expectations of a luxury 
wine expert. Although it sometimes makes people uncomfortable, it is his 
Crush It - Gary Vaynerchuk
3
straightforwardness that sets Gary apart from other professionals. But most importantly, 
it is his tireless efforts, passion and the way he conveys it to the audience that bring 
success to Wine Library TV channel.
However, just having your own brand is not enough. Since this is something that will 
reflect your passion for people, make sure it always gives “customers” the best service, 
that they are always listened to and served with enthusiasm. For example, when 
starting to build their own brand, an author often spends a lot of time answering 
questions and comments from viewers. Gradually, those efforts were rewarded with the 
trust of people, who did not hesitate to introduce his channel to everyone around.
Chapter 4. Social media is a great tool to drive people 
to your brand.
Once you've identified your passion and started creating your own brand, the next 
challenge you'll face is attracting potential customers who share your passion. Social 
networking is a great method, it has completely changed the way people find potential 
audiences for their products in an incredibly quick and simple way.
This is also how the author attracts viewers to Wine Library TV channel. His Facebook 
and Twitter fan pages are a place to connect him with interested people, and YouTube 
videos are an opportunity for them to ask questions and discover more about his 
products. When people share about this product on their personal pages, the number of 
people interested in Wine Library TV also naturally increases. Gradually, he attracted 
businessmen in the wine market, who offered to appear on his channels. After that, his 
business opportunities expanded thanks to book and advertising deals. However, the 
key secret of his success is creating what viewers expect, not what the advertising 
agencies want.
Not only connecting quickly and effectively with customers, social networks also help 
you manage your entire brand. If in the past, product communication depended on 
advertisers hired by businesses, now, with the help of social networks, the head can do 
it himself. Because, if you communicate on social networks, you can completely decide 
what content and form will reach customers, and at the same time meet their own 
needs.
Chapter 5. Building a brand based on the content of the 
product, as well as the online form that you apply to 
Crush It - Gary Vaynerchuk
4
communicate.
Once you've built your brand and started getting it out to people, it's time to decide how 
you want to convey your passion.
The best option is to use your own stories that can help people understand how you got 
to where you are today. But the next question is, are you going to do a YouTube video, a 
traditional Tumblr blog, or a captioned photo on Flickr? In short, how will you tell your 
story?
Howard Stern, the talented and famous "storyteller", radio host, can be a typical 
"example". He tells all of his life experiences, stories of his passion, whether funny or 
shocking, as long as the things will attract people. Thanks to the captivating storytelling, 
the radio channel became a tool to help him make money from his passion.
Therefore, it is important that you determine how you want to convey your passion to 
others. To do that, we need to know which form of multimedia best suits our personality. 
For example, video and radio will be the best ways for you to get the most out of your 
ability to engage others. On the other hand, if you are shy in front of a microphone or 
camera, perhaps traditional blog posts or Twitter are the right choice.
Either form can bring success to your brand if its content and platform align with your 
passion.
Chapter 6. The key to opening the door to success is 
honesty.
Once you've infused your passion into your own brand and created a platform to 
communicate it, it's time to find a way to make your brand stand out from the crowd. The 
answer is actually very simple: Be yourself. In other words, don't let anything distort your 
own personality, even though it may sometimes offend others.
The author himself also intended to change his not very gentle way of communicating to 
better suit the content of wine. However, if he wasn't determined to stay true to his style 
in the end, his YouTube channel would not have attracted a lot of people who 
appreciate authenticity, and audiences will also assume that he is acting, because so 
the passion for wine is also fake.
However, we need to put in a lot of time and effort to be able to create a brand with a 
strong personal impression. If you deliberately set the stage on fire, you will most likely 
Crush It - Gary Vaynerchuk
5
lose yourself. Because, you have not been patient enough to devote yourself to your 
own brand. Only with full dedication can it take on your personal stamp. And of course, 
this requires great patience, no success comes immediately. Even so, we don't need to 
worry too much, because when we are passionate, those things can't be difficult for us.
Chapter 7. Community support is crucial to success.
Once you know how to communicate your own brand personality, you need to 
determine where you can find potential customers who will support you.
To be able to find and reach them, the best way is to become part of a community that 
shares your passion. To get that community's attention, look for places where they 
regularly exchange ideas and get in on their own. That's exactly how the author does it, 
he knows that the only way for his channel to be successful is to attract like-minded 
people. So, after setting up his own website and Facebook page, he spends a lot of 
time researching the issues that the wine lover community often discusses, the types of 
wine they often discuss, buy and sell, and recommend to others. is different.
In addition, Gary is also directly involved in that community in the same way that you 
introduce yourself to your neighbors who just moved in. He introduced himself to wine 
lovers by participating in discussions in the community. Thanks to that, people know his 
identity. But more importantly, he knew what to expect.
After the integration process, he continued to maintain people's support by treating them 
thoughtfully by answering questions and answering questions enthusiastically.
Chapter 8. Once your brand has become popular, find 
ways to attract investors' attention.
Infusing passion into your personal brand is important, but it's not a long-term strategy if 
you don't have the money. Once your brand has become popular, you will start thinking 
about how to turn that popularity into a profit.
Usually, investors and businesses who want to advertise their products will pay attention 
to you if your channel has a large number of followers and high coverage.
However, speeding up the process doesn't hurt anyone either. The most effective way to 
do that is to attend seminars in your field. In fact, that is where the most potential 
investors gather because they are directly interested in the field you are pursuing. In 
Crush It - Gary Vaynerchuk
6
addition, a short speech will leave a deep impression on people about your brand. This 
is the best way to convey your passion in an area of   interest to investors.
If you're not confident enough to deliver a compelling speech, there's another method 
for you. Take the time to actively research how businesses invest in your industry, then 
find ways to reach them. For example, if you are the owner of a sports blog, you could 
look for companies that sell sportswear advertising in the newspaper, then tell them 
about the potential of advertising on your online blog. friend. This is a small but 
extremely useful tip if you are confident about your personal brand's online reach.
Chapter 9. Be sensitive to changes in the business 
environment.
If you do all of the above, you are ready to make money from online advertising orders 
and investors. However, can you guarantee that your brand will continue to thrive in the 
long term? To do that, we must be sensitive and adaptable to changing times instead of 
relying on uncertain assumptions about the future.
Sensitive people always closely observe the times to always be aware of new 
potentials, and quickly approach it. The author proved his ability through his decision to 
release Wine Library TV channel on Youtube in 2006. At that time, not many people 
realized the potential of Youtube like he did, they didn't know it was a company. Great 
business tool. That sensitivity not only opens up opportunities for us, but it also 
minimizes risks if you go behind the times.
These changes may not be directly related to your brand. However, you also need to be 
as sensitive to it as people in other fields perceive your brand.
The lesson of the Crystal champagne brand is a prime example. In the 1990s, the brand 
was extremely popular in the hip-hop community. However, the brand did not pay 
attention to this new customer, they considered such people not suitable for drinking 
champagne. In the end, they had to pay for that move with hip hop artists, typically Jay-
Z, publicly boycotting Crystal, so the brand lost a large number of potential customers, 
leading to the reputation drop.
In short, to be able to create a sustainable successful brand, you need to be sensitive to 
all the changes of the times.
Conclude
Crush It - Gary Vaynerchuk
7
The secret to making money from your hobby is to devote yourself completely to 
it. If you can create a brand with your own personality, take advantage of social 
media and be sensitive to the changes of the times, investors will notice and pour 
capital into your project.
