A Guide to 
Unlocking the Power 
of Purpose
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
01
People who seek meaning beyond 
themselves are healthier, happier, and 
live longer. So, it’s vital to our well-
being that we maintain a strong sense 
of purpose.
For some people, life purpose is a 
spiritual concept, or has a religious 
dimension. For others, it’s a more 
secular notion, a need to be valued as 
a member of a family or group.
Not everyone feels the need for a 
written purpose but we all need to be 
needed. Mattering matters.
As we mature through the phases of 
our life, experiencing various levels 
of psychological, emotional and, 
ultimately, spiritual growth, we might 
come to think more deeply about 
our life purpose and find ourselves 
yearning for deeper levels of meaning.
At some phase of our lives, we might 
feel stuck, going nowhere, drifting 
without direction, wondering “what is 
the point of it all?”
A sense of life purpose promotes 
physical, mental, and spiritual health. 
Purpose is fundamental.
02
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
03
The dictionary defines purpose as:
1. An object or result aimed at: 
INTENTION
What does this suggest? A “purpose” 
can be as simple as your intention 
or a resolution. So, a “life purpose” is 
really nothing more (or less) than your 
intention to live in a certain way.
A life purpose is realized through 
“intention” — by getting to know 
your authentic self, exploring your 
gifts or natural talents and passions 
— choosing the best possible 
expression to share them with the 
 world.
“Finding” your purpose is a misleading 
concept because it’s not something 
we have to go out and “get,” but rather 
something we need to turn within and 
“unlock.”
We’ve already got it — even if we 
haven’t clarified it yet!
How do we unlock it? By looking in 
the most essential places — our gifts, 
passions, and values. Why would we 
be given a life purpose that doesn’t 
match the “authentic essence” of who 
we are?
Our purpose will always be something 
that:
• We feel that we are naturally good 
at and enjoy doing.
• We feel passionate and care deeply 
about.
• We feel fits our values and ways we 
prefer to operate in the world.
Our life purpose will always express 
our gifts, passions, and values. No 
exceptions. Does that inspire a little 
sigh of relief for you? Hopefully it will.
Before we can create our life purpose 
statement, we need to believe that 
we have one. No guide, of course, can 
convince you of this. You must arrive at 
your own decision.
Reflection #1: 
What is Purpose?
04
There are no rigid formulas for how to write your purpose statement, but there are 
many helpful techniques to assist you. Here are seven mind-changing ideas that 
have brought powerful results to many people over the years. Use them to see 
what you can discover about yourself and your dreams.
1. Think about this sentence for a moment: “From family and friends who knew me 
when I was very young, I have heard that my “special gift” is                                                         
                                                                    .”  How have these “gifts” persisted in your life?
2. Imagine being on your deathbed, still clear and coherent, when your best friend 
drops in to visit you. Your friend asks, “Did you give and receive love?”  
“Were you authentically you?”  “Did you make a small difference in the world?”  
How did you answer the questions? 
Action #1: 
Seven Ways to Begin Unlocking Your Purpose
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
05
( 3. Get out your calculator and do some “life math.”  Multiply your age x 365  
 ). Then, subtract that number from 30,000, an average life expectancy. 
Divide that number by 365. Once you get clear that you have ( 
 ) more years 
to wake up, it might inspire you to live more courageously now. How do you feel 
about how you are spending your most precious currency — your time?
4. How did you wake up this morning? Did you resist getting up or did you get  
out of bed with energy and purpose? Think about the way you wake up, these  
days, and you will learn something about your life’s purpose. Your “mood” getting 
up most days?
06
5. Write the question, “What are my gifts?” on five index cards. Give them to five 
people who know you well and ask them to write their response to the question 
on the card. Put them all together in a place where you can see them. What theme 
or thread do you see?
6. Are you curious? What are you most curious about, these days? Here are some 
clues that will help you answer:
 a. Time passes quickly when you’re exploring this.
 b. It’s so interesting, you can’t help spending time on it!
 c. A bad day doing this is better than a good day doing most other things.
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
07
7. Look around you for potential models and mentors. Ask yourself who is  
really leading the kind of life and doing the kind of work that you envision in  
the next phase of your life? Initiate a courageous conversation to find out: what 
they like “most” and “least” about their work?
These seven reflections will be used as part of your “writing my purpose statement 
exercise.”
08
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
09
If you ask enough people, you’ll 
probably find that there are two basic 
schools of thought regarding life 
purpose:
1.  Those who believe that a life 
purpose is something that we are 
born with, that it is planted in our 
souls before we are born and we 
must embody or achieve it. It’s our 
embedded destiny, and we have  
no choice in the matter.
2.  Those who believe that fate and 
destiny don’t exist and we have 
the power (or “free will”) to choose 
our life purpose and do what we 
choose with our lives.
Which group do you belong to? 
Destiny? Or, choice?
There are no easy or perfect answers 
to this question. So, if you’re still not 
sure, I’d like to propose a workable 
compromise for you. What if a life 
purpose is something you are born 
with, but you also have full control 
over how and when you act on it? 
What if, with a little reflection and 
choice, you could move naturally and 
easily toward your life purpose without 
feeling like you “have to” do specific 
things?
You might be surprised to discover 
that unlocking your life purpose 
can be an enjoyable process. It’s 
the kind of “choice” that changes 
everything — from emptiness to 
fulfillment, from boredom to passion.
Destiny and choice. Choice is the 
power in purpose. Each of us is an 
“experiment of one.” Each of us has  
an embedded destiny — gifts to  
add value to the world. And, we were 
born with free will to choose how  
we think, act, and react.
Reflection #2:  
Born with Purpose, or Choose One?
10
The purpose question is answered from the inside out. It’s only from inner 
questing that you can answer the big quest-ions. When you pay attention to the 
key indicators in your life, not the superficialities, you can then name, work, and 
live on purpose. Here are two clues:
Clue #1: What are my strongest beliefs?
Jot down your thoughts on the following:
Community: What do you think your responsibility is to others?
Service: What is life asking of you, today?
Values: What do you stand for?
Legacy: What do you think your life’s legacy will be?
Wisdom: Who are the wise elders in your life? What have you learned from them?
Compassion: What do you think is its nature and importance?
Source: If you have a concept of God, Supreme Being, or Higher Power, what do 
you think the Source is urging you to do?
Action #2: 
Purpose Clues
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
11
Clue #2: What are my passions?
Using the strongest beliefs you just reflected upon, what curiosities or passions 
emerged for you? What moves you? What do you feel needs doing in the world?
What I’m really curious about…?
What I really care about…?
Using your beliefs and passions as clues, draft your own purpose statement.  
Write out a number of statements to see how they look and feel to you.
The reason I get up in the morning is…to awaken, to ignite, to organize, to teach, 
to support, to empower, to develop, to accept, to encourage, to help, to inspire, 
to learn, to enhance, to serve, to lead, to act upon, to …, to …, 
Examples: I get up in the morning…. “To bring out the best in my colleagues.”  
“To help people become as much as they can be.”  “To make the world a little 
greener and kinder.”
My purpose draft:
12
Reflecting on your draft purpose statement, write a single sentence which 
expresses your reason for getting up in the morning.
I get up in the morning to:
Writing a purpose statement is challenging and requires much thought.  
If you find it difficult to write your purpose statement, don’t be discouraged.  
View it as your quest — an exciting journey to unlock your purpose within you.
My Purpose
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
13
I gain a sense of purpose when:
14
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
15
Consider choosing a new mindset —  
that of “living purposefully” rather 
than “having a purpose.”  Living 
purposefully means choosing how you 
will use your gifts and talents to create 
more meaning for yourself and others.
When it comes to living purposefully, 
we usually find ourselves in one of 
three places:
1. We don’t worry about whether we 
have a formal purpose or not.  
We simply live our lives doing the 
things we feel drawn to.
2. We know exactly what our purpose 
is, and we positively work at it each 
day.
3. We believe we have a purpose but 
have no clue what it may be or how 
to find out.
Which group do you fall into?
Members of the first group probably 
wouldn’t be reading this guide 
and members of the second group 
would probably be too busy living 
purposefully to read about it!
The majority of people who read this 
booklet probably fall into group #3.  
If you’re not sure if you do, reflect on 
these questions:
• Have you recently felt like you’d like 
to be doing more with your life?
• Do you often yearn to use your gifts 
(natural talents) to contribute more 
to the world?
• Do you feel like you’re “majoring 
in the minors”— wasting time on 
things that are too small for you? 
(Examples?)
• Do you desire to “major in the 
majors”— serve others in a larger 
way but don’t know how?
• Do you ever wonder if “this is it?”
If you answered “yes” to these 
questions, you’re probably ready to 
write your purpose statement.
Reflection #3:  
Having a Purpose or Living Purposefully?
16
Use the following chart for one week to aid you on your quest to unlock your 
purpose. First thing each morning, capture your ideas and thoughts about why 
you got up that day. At the end of each day, write what “purpose moments” made 
you feel as if you were living or working on purpose.
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Action #3: 
The Process Works…If You Work the Process
This morning, I got up to  
(write in your purpose statement)
This evening, reflecting on my day,  
I felt “on purpose” when I:
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
17
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
This morning, I got up to  
(write in your purpose statement)
This evening, reflecting on my day,  
I felt “on purpose” when I:
18
In simple terms, our life purpose is to 
GROW and to GIVE!
In no sense is any life purposeless. We 
all impact those around us.
Let’s begin at the beginning. From the 
standpoint of evolutionary biology, the 
ultimate purpose of life is to sustain 
life. To “sustain life” means much more 
than just to survive and reproduce. 
Survival requires constant “growth.”
Nature doesn’t stand still; change is the 
only constant. This is a fundamental 
law that we can’t avoid. To change is to 
either “grow and survive” or to “decay 
and die.”
We humans don’t just grow physically. 
We also experience “inner growth.” 
We grow intellectually, emotionally, 
spiritually, and socially.
Community connection is vital for 
survival. The needs to “grow” and to 
“give” are essential elements to our 
evolutionary survival strategy (along 
with intelligence and choice). Our 
early ancestors learned the wisdom,  
in survival terms, of personal growth, 
and of giving today because you 
might need help tomorrow.
Our growth determines our capacity 
to give.
Through our inner growth as 
individuals, we collectively contribute 
to the advancement of the 
community as a whole. The greater 
our individual growth, the greater 
the clarity of our gifts serving those 
around us. Through them in turn, 
our impact extends indefinitely, ever 
rippling outwards.
The quality and individual reach of our 
service to others is what differs. We 
give to our family, community, and 
world in accordance with the quality 
of growth we project.
Reflection #4:
Our Default Purpose
A Guide to Unlocking the Purpose of Purpose 
19
As we grow, this impact becomes 
more subtle, refined, and more 
powerful. The power of purpose.
Inner “growth,” then, is essential to our 
capacity for “giving.”
The gifts we give will be framed and 
scaled by the phase of our life, and 
by our present roles, responsibilities, 
and maturity. We may for example be 
a parent, a business person, a teacher, 
a student, a caregiver, an employee, 
a retired person, or be in any number 
of these or other roles. Each of our 
phases and roles in life carries choices 
for us to “give” and to “grow.”
Our life purpose involves a quest 
for personal growth and a search 
for meaning through personal 
contribution. Our purpose evolves  
as we grow through life phases. 
Purpose grows and develops with us. 
A progressive unlocking of purpose  
is essential to our health, happiness, 
and longevity.
20
Take a look at the blogs, videos, and upcoming purpose events on this website: 
richardleider.com 
Don’t be put off by the work of unlocking your life purpose. There’s nothing 
mystical or mysterious about it. Yet, it does require some work. It’s rarely revealed 
to us without some digging.
The search for life purpose is far more straight-forward than we might expect. 
Getting it wrong, over and over, is part of the process. It’s how we grow.
Richard Leider is the author of nine books, including three best sellers, and  
his books have sold over one million copies. Visit richardleider.com/books for 
more details:
The Power of Purpose:  Find Meaning. Live Longer, Better. (3rd Edition)
Life Reimagined: Discovering Your New Life Possibilities
Work Reimagined: Uncover Your Calling 
Repacking Your Bags: Lighten Your Load for the Good Life  (3rd Edition)
Claiming Your Place at the Fire:  Living the Second Half of Your Life on Purpose
Something to Live For:  Finding Your Way in the Second Half of Life
Action #4: 
Read The Power of Purpose
The start you’ve made here will 
continue to evolve. The process will 
work if you work the process. When 
your purpose statement comes from 
that place of deep gifts, passions, and 
values, you should be able to relate 
it to any part of your life: your work, 
your relationships, your learning, 
your spiritual development, and your 
choices around time and money.
Give yourself the freedom to refine, 
edit, and change your purpose 
statement until it reflects you. 
Interview someone about his or 
her purpose. Read about people’s 
purposes as revealed in biographies, 
magazines, and newspapers. Note 
how they expressed their purposes 
and the paths that led to them.
The Purpose Quest
©2015 Inventure - The Purpose Company
richardleider.com
